Draw Steel Compendium is an independent product published under the DRAW STEEL Creator License and is not affiliated with MCDM Productions, LLC. DRAW STEEL © 2024 MCDM Productions, LLC.

## WHAT IS THIS GAME?

This is a game about fighting monsters. About larger-than-life, extraordinary heroes plunging into battle against
terrifying, monstrous enemies.

That covers a lot! So let’s get specific and talk about what this game is, and what it is not.

This game will absolutely feature dungeons. Ancient underground complexes filled with ravenous undead or creeping oozes.
But it isn’t a dungeon crawler. It’s not about “clearing rooms.” It’s not a survival horror game where you must track
light and food and the weight of every object you carry.

You can fight monsters in a dungeon, but the game is not about dungeons. Lots of games focus on that gameplay and do it
really well! Like *Shadowdark*.

It’s not a wilderness exploration game, aka a hex crawl. It’s not about surviving in extreme weather, getting lost, or
trying to navigate your way back to safety.

You can fight monsters in the wilderness, even run a whole campaign in the wilderness, but this game is not about the
wilderness. We love games that focus on that fantasy, like *Forbidden Lands*.

You can run adventures with horror themes, but this is not a horror roleplaying game like *Call of Cthulhu*. Your
sessions can and will feature comedy, but this isn’t a comedy RPG like *Paranoia*.

We genuinely love all those games. But we love them because they focus on specific genres of gameplay and deliver on
them really well.

Our game is heroic fantasy. That’s its genre. Extraordinary people fighting dragons and necromancers.

But “heroic fantasy” is still a little too broad for our purposes, so we added two other keywords to explain how our
game might be different from other games in this genre: *tactical* and *cinematic*.

These terms are just guidelines. A vibe. But we find them useful when trying to choose between different features. “Both
of these ideas are cool, but which is the most cinematic? The most heroic?”

So let’s talk about what we mean when we use these terms.

## TACTICAL

Strategy is: “What are we trying to do?” Break a siege, free a prisoner, rescue a captive, steal a tome of ancient lore.
Strategy is about long-term goals.

Tactics is about: “How are we going to do that?” We’re going to … surround them! Sneak around them! Pick them off one by
one! Kill their leader first. Kill their priest first! “No resurrections!”

In a tactical game, positioning matters. So our game is played on a grid. Effects and distances are measured in squares.
This means everyone is looking at the same problem, and there is no ambiguity regarding where the heroes and villains
are in relation to each other.

The hobgoblin troopers are setting themselves up in a line to stop our tactician and fury from getting into melee with
the hobgoblin war mage. We can all see that happening, and can talk about what we’re going to do to stop it.

That means teamwork matters. That’s why initiative works the way it does—to encourage the players to plan! “Okay, you
use *Concussive Slam* on that trooper, it’ll push him back, and on my turn I can use *Phalanx Forward* to get us all
into melee with the death captain.”

We think focusing on teamwork also makes the game more heroic! :D

In a tactical game, you have many choices each round. You are never reduced to just swinging your sword. You have
options. If we do a good job, you don’t feel like you outlasted your opponents because you wore their hit points down
before they could reduce yours to 0—you feel like you beat those hobgoblins! Through stealth and sorcery, coordination
and ferocity!

As you play with the same group of characters, you learn what they can all do. You discover synergies, “combos.” Some of
them intended by the designers, some not! You start to learn these unique characters, and rely on them to do their cool
things. It’s a great feeling when another player comes up with a cool plan that relies on your unique abilities.

You learn which characters are the “squishies” who need to be protected or healed. You learn which characters can push
themselves right to the edge and keep fighting. “Don’t worry about healing Barlaca. She’s our fury. She’s happier with 3
Stamina.”

Our game is not about tactics. It’s not a war game. But it is tactical.

## HEROIC

Our game is definitely about heroism! :D

For us, this means a couple of things. It means we don’t assume your character is primarily motivated by greed. They
might be! But we don’t assume that. Instead, we assume you’re going to do the right thing. It might take some
convincing, and there might be some reluctant heroes in your party, but that’s part of the fun!

You should absolutely be able to run a *Chain of Acheron*-style campaign where the heroes are hard-bitten mercenaries in
a morally ambiguous world. But that’s not the baseline assumption. The fiction and adventures that inspire us feature
epic villains trying to remake the world in their image, and the dashing, unyielding heroes who strive against them even
in the face of impossible odds.

So that’s one component of the heroic keyword. But another component, equally important, is what kinds of things happen
“on-screen,” so to speak. This is very closely related to the cinematic keyword.

For instance, you never see Indiana Jones having to find a local sporting goods store because he needs to stock up on
ammo. You never see Katniss Everdeen have to stop and take a shower because she stinks.

These things do happen. No one watching *Raiders of the Lost Ark* thinks that Indy’s gun is magical and doesn’t need
bullets—but we just don’t need to see Indy doing that stuff. We don’t need to waste time on it.

Likewise in our game, we don’t worry about stuff that heroes in fiction tend not to worry about. We don’t worry how much
everything you’re carrying weighs. If you try to lift a bear, you might have trouble, sure. But nowhere on your
character sheet are you tracking the weight of every item.

You don’t track food such as rations, and you don’t worry about how many torches you have. Light might factor into a
specific environment, because that can be a fun tactical challenge, but the game doesn’t expect that everyone is always
worried about running out of light.

Basically, we worry only about those things you’d see your characters doing in a movie, or a comic, or a novel about
their adventures. Assume all the tedious stuff happens off-screen.

## CINEMATIC

Closely tied to the heroic keyword, the cinematic keyword is about how we like powers and abilities with a strong visual
component. You can imagine your character doing or saying these things. *“In All This Confusion”* is a good name for the
shadow’s ability to slip out of melee and retreat to safety. The text of the ability says how it works, but the name
creates a visual that explains how it’s working.

When Sir Vanazor the dragon knight fury leaps onto a goblin war spider, cleaving through the goblins riding the creature
in a single turn, you can see it in your mind. It feels like a movie. It doesn’t feel simply as if you rolled well, but
like an epic scene, complete with slow motion and a Carpenter Brut soundtrack.

You should imagine your tactician character leading the battle, granting your allies free attacks, extra maneuvers.
Coordinating the battle. That’s what the name implies. And if we’ve done a good job, when you read the character’s
abilities, you think, *“Yes! This is what I was imagining! I can’t wait to do this!”*

## FANTASY

Just … you know … it’s got dragons and stuff. :D

It’s worth mentioning—while everyone basically already knows what fantasy means in this context, we do imagine it a
little more broadly than your average classical medieval fantasy. We like that stuff! Vasloria is our medieval European
fantasy analog with knights on horseback and wizards in towers. But we also like high fantasy urban intrigue, and so
we’re developing *Capital, the City of the Great Game, the Greatest City In This or Any Age*. Vasloria is mostly humans
and elves and orcs and dwarves, but Capital has dozens, hundreds of different ancestries in it.

Looking back at movies like *Star Wars* and the work of artists like Chris Foss, that ’70s stuff now seems explicitly
fantastical. There’s nothing scientific or even plausible about a lightsaber or a John Berkey spaceship. But damn, they
look cool!

So our setting includes the timescape—our multiverse, of which the world of Orden containing Capital and Vasloria is
only one part. The timescape is more explicitly *“space fantasy.”*

These core rules mostly cover the classic fantasy stuff. But we think Capital and the timescape will help us deliver a
game where more people can see their fantasy in our worlds.

For us, fantasy includes magic, like wizards casting spells, and psionics, the natural and focused ability some
creatures have to manipulate and warp reality with their minds. You know, telekinesis and telepathy! Jean Grey style!

## IF YOU’RE COMING FROM D20 FANTASY …

We know many folks are coming to this game having only experienced d20 fantasy RPGs. Here are a few key distinctions
between this game and typical d20 fantasy that you’ll notice right away. These aren’t the only distinctions, but they’re
the most obvious:

- **Attacks automatically deal damage.** You can still have a bad turn! A tier one result is not awesome, but at least
  you’re making progress. The trick is: who’s making progress faster? You or the monsters? Since there’s no *“I miss,
  next”* in this game, fights tend to be short. 5 rounds is a long fight. Because everyone’s always doing damage!

- **You don’t need to rest all the time.** Most d20 fantasy games are games of attrition. Your spell slots and other
  features dwindle as the adventuring day goes on. In *Draw Steel*, you need to rest to regain your Stamina and
  Recoveries (the stat that determines how robust you are in combat). But all characters earn the ability to use their
  magic and other awesome abilities as they adventure, encouraging you to press on heroically.

- **Character options are different.** We very strongly recommend you start by looking through the character creation
  section before you decide what you want to play. You can’t just assume the conduit is *“basically a cleric.”* In some
  ways it is! But in other ways, it’s very different. You may have some cool character archetype you love to play in d20
  Fantasy and you’re dying to see how it works in *Draw Steel*, but you’ll have a lot more fun if you start by browsing
  the Ancestries and Class sections and being inspired. Once you know how the game works, you’ll have a better handle on
  how to build your favorite character in here.

- **Smaller bonuses and penalties** *Draw Steel* is built around the roll of two ten-sided dice to produce three
  possible outcomes. On the surface, this might not seem that different from rolling a twenty-sided die and having two
  outcomes, but we’ve run the math. A lot. A bonus of +1 or penalty of −2 is significant in *Draw Steel*, much more so
  than in a typical d20 fantasy game. That means you should feel pretty good attempting most power rolls—the rolls you
  make to determine success out of combat—if you have a decent characteristic bonus on those rolls. And if you have a
  specific skill that applies to a power roll made as a test outside of combat, you’ll do even better.

- **Our game has a lot of skills.** Your character can make use of a long list of skills, but we don’t expect you to
  memorize that list. We get into why there are so many skills in the *Tests* chapter, but the short version is that we
  think having a lot of skills allows you to create more distinct and specialized heroes, which supports the sort of
  gameplay we want to see in *Draw Steel*. And skills in *Draw Steel* aren’t tied to characteristics. If you’re trying
  to lose someone in a crowd? You can use Presence to Hide! Why not?

- **We won’t be able to point out every difference.** Beyond what’s noted here, don’t assume that these rules work like
  any d20 fantasy game you’ve played. We don’t have the space to point out every exception. So if you’re in doubt about
  how something works, put d20 fantasy out of your mind and read our rules without those assumptions, and you’ll find
  that things make better sense. If you’re still confused, stop by the MCDM Discord and ask. We’ve got tons of awesome
  community members ready to help!

- **We don’t expect you to do everything to the letter.** This is actually one thing *Draw Steel* does have in common
  with d20 fantasy. This is a big book of rules! Don’t stress if you need to look something up or make a ruling about an
  edge case on the fly. If everyone’s having fun, you’re doing it right.

# THE BASICS

The flow of playing *Draw Steel* is like playing any other tabletop roleplaying game with a Director (also called a Game
Master or GM in other games). Play is a conversation between the Director and the heroes that describes the story. The
Director sets the scene, describing the important elements of the environment that the heroes would notice.

**Director:** You stand in the doorway of the top level of the ruined necromancer’s tower. The air is stale and reeks of
death. A pale full moon shines through a broken ceiling, illuminating six sarcophagi upon a raised dais, each with a lid
carved in the likeness of a devil. Broken flasks, beakers, and other laboratory glass covers the floor.

After the Director sets the scene, each player describes how their character interacts with the area. The Director then
describes how the environment and any creatures in it respond to the heroes’ actions.

**Alyssa (playing Jorn):** I’m going to hang out at the back of the group with my warhammer drawn. I want to be ready in
case any of those skeletons we snuck by on the lower levels make their way up the stairs.

**Matt (playing Linn):** Linn uses her *Telekinesis* ability to sweep up the glass on the floor and form a path free of
glass that goes from the door to the dais.

**James (playing Korvo):** I’ll light a torch as I step into the room. Is there anything new we can see now?

**Director:** With the glass cleared away and brighter light glowing in the room, you can see that the floor is covered
in faded sigils.

At some point, a player will have their hero attempt a task that has a risk of failing in a way that is narratively
interesting. In such cases, the Director calls for some dice to be rolled! Don’t worry—the rules outline when and how to
do this.

**Grace (playing Val):** Before anyone steps on them, I want to examine the symbols and figure out what they mean.

**Director:** Okay, well for that, I need you to make an easy Reason test.

**Grace:** I got a 12! What do I know?

**Director:** You can tell these old sigils are part of a necromancy spell that has been woven into the stone floor.
Also, Jorn can hear something coming up the steps. It’s the clicking and clacking of bone on stone.

**Alyssa:** Uh, let’s make a decision here, folks. We got boneheads incoming!

**Matt:** Linn has had enough of this dillydallying. She moves to the dais and ushers everyone inside the room so we can
shut and barricade the door.

**Grace:** Uh-oh.

**Director:** Before anyone else can move, Linn’s foot connects with one of the sigils. A burst of red lightning cracks
from the place where her foot touched the floor, running to the walls and up to the ceiling.

**Matt:** Oh, right. Necromancy.

**Grace:** Yeah. Should have warned you.

**Director:** The whole tower starts to sway as the sarcophagus lids slide to the floor and clawed undead hands emerge
from within. Six decaying devils, each tattooed with glowing green runes, rise. They’re eager for violence.

**James:** I think we found the Rotting Lords of Hell.

**Director:** Draw steel!

When combat begins, it’s time to use a square-gridded map and miniatures to represent the position of the heroes
relative to their enemies and the environment. The rules become a little more granular during combat to keep things
interesting and fair, but the idea that the game is a conversation between the Director and the other players remains
the same.

## CHARACTERISTICS

Each creature in the game has five characteristics that represent their physical and mental prowess.

### MIGHT

Might (M) represents strength and brawn. A creature’s ability to break down doors, swing an axe, stand up during an
earthquake, or hurl an ally across a chasm is determined by Might.

### AGILITY

Agility (A) represents coordination and nimbleness. A creature’s ability to backflip out of danger, shoot a crossbow,
dodge an explosion, or pluck keys from a guard’s belt is determined by Agility.

### REASON

Reason (R) represents a logical mind and education. A creature’s ability to solve a puzzle that unlocks a door, recall
lore about necromancy, decipher a coded message, or blast a foe with psionic power is determined by Reason.

### INTUITION

Intuition (I) represents instincts and experience. A creature’s ability to recognize a faint sound as the approach of a
distant rider, quickly read the tell of a bluffing gambler, calm a rearing horse, or track a monster across the tundra
is determined by Intuition.

### PRESENCE

Presence (P) represents force of personality. A creature’s ability to lie to a judge, convince a crowd to join a
revolution, impress a queen at a royal banquet, or cast a magic spell by singing a song is determined by Presence.

### CHARACTERISTIC SCORES

Each characteristic has a score that runs from −5 to +5. The higher a score, the more impact the creature has with that
characteristic. A baby bunny rabbit would have a Might score of −5, while an ancient dragon would have a Might score of
5. The average human has a score of 0 in all their characteristics. Characteristic scores are added to power rolls—the
dice rolls you make whenever your character attempts a task with an uncertain outcome (see *Power Rolls*).

### RESISTING POTENCIES

Many effects inflict conditions and unique statuses on heroes and their enemies. But creatures get a chance to resist
these effects. A creature with a high Might score should be harder to knock prone than a creature who is lacking in that
characteristic.

These effects have a potency and only take hold of the target if the effect’s potency value is higher than the target’s
indicated characteristic scores.

A potency always appears in text as a capital letter followed by a single digit number, such as M1 or R3. The letter
indicates which characteristic is used to resist the effect (M for Might, A for Agility, R for Reason, I for Intuition,
and P for Presence), and the number indicates the minimum score in that characteristic the target needs to beat the
effect.

For example, a 1st-level conduit’s *Punishing Smite* ability has the following power roll outcomes:

- **Power Roll + Intuition:**
    - 11 or lower: 3 holy damage; A1 prone
    - 12–16: 6 holy damage; A2 prone
    - 17+: 9 holy damage; A3 prone and can’t stand (save ends)

If the conduit uses this ability and targets a bandit with an Agility score of 1, then a tier 1 result would deal holy
damage to the bandit but have no other effect. But a tier 2 result would deal damage and knock the bandit prone, while a
tier 3 result would deal damage, knock the bandit prone, and prevent the bandit from getting up until they succeed on a
saving throw.

#### YOUR POTENCY

Many of your abilities have a potency. The characteristic a target uses to resist is based on the ability used, and the
value of your potency is based on one of your characteristics and determined by your choice of class during character
creation.

You have weak, average, and strong potency values. All of these values increase as your hero advances in level and gains
power.

- **Your weak potency value** is equal to your highest characteristic score - 1.
- **Your average potency value** is equal to your highest characteristic score.
- **Your strong potency value** is equal to your highest characteristic score + 1.

## DICE

This game uses ten-sided dice (also called d10s). Each player and the Director should have two of these. Some ten-sided
dice are numbered 0 to 9, while others are numbered 1 to 10. In the case of the former, a 0 counts as 10.

The game also makes occasional use of a six-sided die (called a d6), so it’s helpful if each player has one or two of
those as well.

### D3S

On rare occasions, the rules ask a player to roll one or more three-sided dice (also called d3s). If you don’t have a
d3, you can roll a six-sided die instead, treating a roll of 1–2 as a 1, a roll of 3–4 as a 2, and a roll of 5–6 as a 3.

### D100S

Some tables in this book ask the Director to roll a d100. To roll a d100, grab two ten-sided dice. One die represents
the tens digit, and the other die is the ones digit. If you roll a 5 for the tens digit and a 3 for the ones digit, the
number rolled is 53.

Some ten-sided dice are numbered 0 to 9, while others are numbered 1 to 10. A 10 on the latter counts as a 0 for the
purposes of rolling a d100. If a 10 is rolled for the tens digit and a 9 is rolled for the ones digit, the number rolled
is 09 or 9.

If both dice rolled show a 0 or 10 result, then the number rolled is 100.

## POWER ROLLS

Whenever a hero or other creature in the game attempts a task with an uncertain outcome, such as attacking a foe,
sneaking by a guard patrol without being seen, or persuading a queen to provide military aid, the creature makes a power
roll to determine the outcome of their actions.

### TYPES OF POWER ROLLS

The game uses three types of power rolls:

- **An ability roll** is used when you activate certain abilities to determine their impact. For instance, if a fury
  uses their *Brutal Slam* ability to attack an enemy, their ability roll determines how much damage the enemy takes and
  how far back the enemy is pushed. See *Abilities* for more information.
- **A resistance roll** is a power roll you make to avoid harmful effects, whether generated by another creature’s
  abilities, the environment, or some other source. See *Resistance Rolls* in *Adventuring* for more information.
- **A test** is a power roll you make outside of using your abilities to affect or interact with the world around you. A
  tactician might not have an ability that lets them climb up the face of a cliff, so climbing is an activity they can
  attempt with a test. An elementalist doesn’t have an ability that lets them automatically intimidate a cultist into
  backing down from a fight, but they can make a test if they want to try. See *Tests* for more information.

### MAKING A POWER ROLL

When you make a power roll, you roll two ten-sided dice (sometimes noted as 2d10 in the rules) and add one of your
characteristics.
The characteristic you add depends on the kind of roll you’re making, as outlined in *Abilities* and *Tests*.

#### POWER ROLL OUTCOMES

The result of a power roll determines your outcome tier—three levels that determine how successful your power roll is.

- **Tier 1:** If your power roll result is 11 or lower, it is a tier 1 result. This is the worst result a power roll can
  have. If you’re using an ability, a tier 1 result means you still do something, but the impact of what you do is
  minimal. With this result, an attack ability might deal a little bit of damage and not do much else. For a test, a
  tier 1 result means you fail at what you set out to do, and you might also suffer a negative consequence.
- **Tier 2:** If your power roll result is 12 to 16, it is a tier 2 result. This is the average result of many power
  rolls, especially for heroes who are 1st level. When using an ability, a tier 2 result means that what you do has a
  moderate impact. With this result, an attack ability deals a decent amount of damage and has an effect that briefly
  helps allies or hinders enemies. For a test, a tier 2 result means you might succeed at what you set out to do—though
  depending on the difficulty, success might have a cost.
- **Tier 3:** If your power roll result is 17 or higher, it is a tier 3 result. This is the best result a power roll can
  have. When using an ability, a tier 3 result means you deliver the maximum impact possible. With this result, an
  attack ability deals a lot of damage and has a powerful or lasting effect on enemies or allies. For a test, a tier 3
  result means you succeed at what you set out to do. If the test has an easy difficulty, you also get a little
  something extra in addition to your success.

The specific outcome of any power roll is determined by the effect or ability that requires the roll (see *Abilities*)
or the rules for tests (see *Tests*).

#### DOWNGRADE A POWER ROLL

Whenever you make a power roll, you can downgrade it to select the result of a lower tier. For instance, if an ability
has a tier 3 result that lets you impose the *restrained* condition on a creature, but the tier 2 result for that
ability lets you impose the *slowed* condition, you can use the tier 2 result if you would rather have the creature
slowed than restrained.

If you downgrade a critical hit, you still get the extra action benefit of the critical hit (see *Critical Hit* in
*Abilities*).

#### NATURAL RESULT

The result of your power roll before your characteristic or any other modifiers are applied is called the natural
result. The rules often refer to this as “rolling a natural X,” where X is the result of the roll. For example, if you
get a 20 on the power roll before adding your characteristic, this is called rolling a natural 20.

Whenever you roll a natural 19 or 20 on a power roll, you always achieve the tier 3 result, no matter what
characteristic is added to the roll and whether or not the roll has any banes.

### EDGES AND BANES

An archer standing on a castle wall fires down into a throng of enemies, hitting the mark each time thanks to their high
ground. A drunken bandit struggles to land blows on sober opponents as alcohol clouds their senses.

Under certain circumstances, you need more than just a characteristic to represent the advantages and disadvantages that
heroes, their enemies, and their allies might have.

#### EDGE

An edge represents a situational advantage a hero or an enemy has when making a power roll. For example, a standing hero
who makes a melee attack against a prone creature gains an edge on the power roll for their attack. A pair of magic
gloves that makes your hands sticky might grant you an edge when making a power roll to climb walls!

When you make a power roll with a single edge, you add 2 to the roll. If you make a power roll with two or more edges,
you have a *double edge*. This means you don’t add anything to the power roll, but the result of the roll automatically
improves one tier (to a maximum of tier 3).

#### BANE

A bane represents a situational disadvantage a hero or an enemy has when making a power roll. For example, if you make
an attack while prone, the power roll for the attack takes a bane. A rainstorm might give you a bane on a power roll
made to climb an outdoor wall because the weather makes the stone surface extra slick.

When you make a power roll with a single bane, you subtract 2 from the roll. If you make a power roll with two or more
banes, you have a *double bane*. This means you don’t subtract anything from the power roll, but the result of the roll
automatically decreases one tier (to a minimum of tier 1).

#### ROLLING WITH EDGES AND BANES

Under certain circumstances, you might have one or more edges and banes on the same roll. For instance, you might take a
bane when weakened by poison, even as you gain an edge for attacking a prone creature. In general, edges and banes
cancel each other out, resolving as follows:

- If you have an edge and a bane, or if you have a double edge and a double bane, the roll is made as usual without any
  edges or banes.
- If you have a double edge and just one bane, the roll is made with one edge, regardless of how many single edge
  instances contribute to the double edge.
- If you have a double bane and just one edge, the roll is made with one bane, regardless of how many single bane
  instances contribute to the double bane.

#### WHEN TO USE EDGES AND BANES

The rules tell you when to modify a roll with an edge or a bane. The Director can also modify rolls with edges and banes
as a response to narrative or environmental circumstances. For instance, no rule specifically says that rain imposes a
bane on power rolls made to climb a stone wall.But it makes sense that rainy conditions should make climbing that wall
harder, so a Director should absolutely do so!

#### WHY CAP?

We capped edges and banes at a maximum of two each for several reasons, including thinking about the narrative of those
penalties. Every little advantage or disadvantage in a heroic story has diminishing returns, acknowledging that a
creature can only benefit or be hindered by short-term circumstances so much. For example, a character who is prone and
weakened by poison already finds it difficult to attack—so becoming restrained by a net can’t really make it harder.

We also liked capping edges and banes at two because it keeps play quick. It’s nice to not need to count beyond two
positive or negative circumstances in a battle with a lot of effects flying around.

### BONUSES AND PENALTIES

While edges and banes cover most circumstantial effects that can have an impact on a power roll, a few rules add numeric
bonuses or penalties to power rolls. Bonus and penalty values are specified in the rules that impose them, and are
calculated independently of edges and banes, and before edges and banes are factored into a power roll.

There is no limit to the number of bonuses or penalties that can apply to a power roll, and bonuses and penalties always
add together.

Though it might sound as if the math with bonuses and penalties can get confusing, fear not! Bonuses and penalties are
rare except in the case of skills, which appear on your character sheet (see *Skills* for more information).

## SURGE AND SHIELD SYMBOLS

In the text of this book, you’ll notice that we often use two symbols—🌟 and 🛡️. Surges, represented by the 🌟 icon, are
special bonuses that increase a creature’s damage output. Shields, represented by the 🛡️ icon, are special bonuses that
decrease damage being dealt to a creature. For more information, see *Damage in Combat*.

## HERO TOKENS

In all great heroic stories, luck favors the protagonists, giving them that little bit of extra fortune they need to win
the day. In these stories, fate is often on the side of the righteous.

To represent that tiny bit of karma, players have access to hero tokens, a special resource that they can rely on when
all else fails.

Hero tokens are a group resource that is tracked by the players and kept in a pool that is accessible to all their
characters. They can be tracked using poker chips, stones, or other markers, or numerically on a piece of paper or
written off to the side in a virtual tabletop.

### EARNING HERO TOKENS

At the start of a new game session, the heroes have a number of hero tokens equal to the number of heroes in the party.
The heroes can earn more tokens through play by taking big risks to save others. A hero who leaps off a cliff to get to
the bottom and aid a friend, who crosses a burning bridge to save a stray cat, or who wagers their most prized treasure
as part of a negotiation to get shelter for a group of refugees earns a hero token for the group. The Director has the
final say in what acts earn hero tokens.

Players can also be awarded hero tokens as part of a test’s outcome when they succeed in a task with a reward (see
*Tests*).

### SPENDING HERO TOKENS

Whenever hero tokens are available, you can spend them in the following ways. You can only spend one hero token on your
turn or per test:

- You can spend a hero token whenever you deal damage to a creature to deal additional damage to the creature equal to
  your level + your highest characteristic score.
- You can spend a hero token when you fail a saving throw to succeed on it instead.
- When you fail a test or succeed on a test with a consequence, you can spend a hero token to turn the failure into a
  success and to lose any consequence suffered.
- You can spend 2 hero tokens on your turn or whenever you take damage (no action required) to regain Stamina equal to
  your Recovery value without spending a Recovery.

Unless the Director decides otherwise, unused hero tokens disappear at the end of a session. A Director may lift this
restriction if the heroes end a session with more hero tokens than they had at the start.

#### FOR THE DIRECTOR: AWARDING HERO TOKENS

You can award hero tokens to the players for taking risks with their heroes beyond what the game typically expects of
them. For instance, battling a group of monsters is part of the game and doesn’t earn a hero token. However, the
following sorts of activities might:

- A hero stands alone against a group of enemies to allow their comrades to escape.
- A hero willingly jumps into quicksand, into lava, off a cliff, or into some other hazard to save another character.
- The group is presented with an easy way out of a difficult situation that involves lying, cheating, stealing, or the
  like, but they take the more arduous and honorable path.
- A hero gives away an important resource, such as a Healing Potion, to help another creature in need.

## GAME OF EXCEPTIONS

This game has a fair number of rules. But it also has plenty of character options, specialized equipment, and other game
elements that let you break those rules. This is on purpose! Breaking the rules allows heroes to feel special and makes
their foes seem extra dangerous.

If you’re not sure what to do when two rules come into conflict with each other, remember that a specific exception
always beats a more general rule. The Director has the final say in how rules are adjudicated.

## ALWAYS ROUND DOWN

There are times when the rules tell you to divide a number in half. Whenever you divide an odd number in half and it
results in a decimal, round the result down to the nearest whole number. For instance, if you have a speed of 7 and
become slowed (a condition that halves your speed), then your speed becomes 3.

## CREATURES AND OBJECTS

This game uses the terms “creature” and “object.” Creatures are living or unliving beings such as animals, elves,
humans, dragons, giants, zombies, and valok. Objects are inanimate matter such as walls, carriages, cups, swords, ropes,
coins, paintings, columns, and buildings.

When a creature dies, their body becomes an object and can be affected by abilities and other effects that target
objects. For example, a talent can’t use their *Telekinesis* power to slide an unwilling enemy cult leader into an evil
temple’s pit of hellfire. But if that boss dies, the talent can slide their body into the pit to prevent the boss from
being raised as a powerful undead by the temple’s magic.

The game sometimes refers to “unattended objects,” which are objects that aren’t held, worn, or controlled by a
creature. Whenever an ability affects objects, it affects only unattended objects unless the Director determines
otherwise. Among other things, this prevents abilities from being used to damage a foe’s armor, weapons, clothing, magic
items, and so forth while those objects are worn or held.

## PCS AND NPCS

Two types of characters inhabit the world of the game—the player characters (also called PCs or heroes) who are created
and controlled by the players, and nonplayer characters (NPCs) created and controlled by the Director.

NPCs can include any of the game’s monsters, but when the rules refer to NPCs, they generally do so in the context of
interacting with them outside of combat.

## BUILDING A HEROIC NARRATIVE

The game takes place in a series of scenes with the heroes as the main characters. An adventure is a collection of
scenes that make up a story, with a beginning, middle, and end, and a campaign is a collection of adventures that tell
the entire epic tale of a group of heroes. You can think of each adventure as a movie in a saga of films, a book in a
series of novels, or a season of a television show.

While many heroes have their stories told over the course of a campaign, some wrap up their careers in a single
adventure that takes place in one game session, called a one-shot. You can think of a one-shot as a great stand-alone
novella or movie.

This game is built so that each adventure you play and each battle you fight gets more exciting as it goes on. In
fantastic tales, the heroes and their foes both grow in power over the course of an adventure. But it isn’t time alone
that grows a hero’s capabilities. Rather, it’s the adrenaline that comes from battle, the danger of the hero’s
profession, and the pressure to save the world that pushes a character to do the impossible. Each small act of heroism
gives a hero the confidence and bravery to perform legendary feats against all odds.

The things a hero can achieve at the end of the story are far more daring and impactful than what they do at the start,
and the final showdown against a villain’s forces is more deadly and desperate than the first. The rules of the game
help build a heroic narrative in this same fashion, making use of the four most important mechanics for building heroic
narratives: Victories, Experience, Heroic Resources, and Recoveries.

### VICTORIES

Victories measure your hero’s increasing power over the course of an adventure, as they overcome battles and other
challenges. At the start of an adventure, your hero has 0 Victories.

#### VICTORIES FOR COMBAT

Each time your hero survives a combat encounter in which the party’s objectives are achieved, your Victories increase by
1. The Director can decide that a trivially easy encounter doesn’t increase a hero’s Victories.

#### VICTORIES FOR NONCOMBAT CHALLENGES

When your hero successfully overcomes a big challenge that doesn’t involve combat, the Director can award you 1 Victory.
Such challenges can include things like a particularly complicated and deadly trap, a negotiation, a montage test, a
complicated puzzle, or the execution of a clever idea that avoids a battle.

#### VICTORIES RESET

Whenever you finish a respite (see *Respite*), your Victories are converted into Experience.

#### FOR THE DIRECTOR: AWARDING VICTORIES

We’re still figuring out rules for encounter building, but here are some general guidelines.

A successful combat in which the party’s objectives are achieved earns the heroes 1 Victory. Particularly hard
encounters are worth 2 Victories when completed. We'll have better guidelines on this topic in the future, but for now,
consider tough boss battles worth 2 Victories.

A successful negotiation or montage test should earn the heroes 1 Victory. Other noncombat challenges are left to the
Director’s discretion, but consider the following guidelines to help you determine when awarding 1 Victory is warranted:

- If the heroes overcome a complicated trap that requires more than one test to find and disarm, award them 1 Victory.
- If the heroes investigate a series of clues in a mystery, award 1 Victory when they solve the mystery.
- If the heroes solve a complicated puzzle that requires them to use resources or would take most people at least 10
  minutes to complete, award them 1 Victory.
- If the heroes achieve a major story goal that accomplishes a quest (such as saving a prince trapped by an evil
  baroness or stopping a necromancer from performing a world-ending ritual), award them 1 Victory.
- If the heroes use clever thinking to easily and surprisingly overcome or bypass a combat encounter, a negotiation, a
  montage test, a trap, a puzzle, or some other challenge that would award them 1 or more Victories in a more difficult
  fashion, award them 1 Victory. Clever thinking is just as worthy of a Victory—if not more so!

At the Director’s discretion, particularly hard negotiations, puzzles, mysteries, and other noncombat challenges can be
worth 2 Victories.

### EXPERIENCE

Victories temporarily increase a hero’s power during an adventure, but Experience (or XP) permanently improves their
capabilities. Each time you finish a respite (see below), you gain XP equal to your Victories, then your Victories drop
to 0. In other words, your Victories are converted to XP when you finish a respite.

For more information on how XP increases your hero’s power, see *Heroic Advancement*.

### HEROIC RESOURCES

Your hero has a Heroic Resource determined by your class, and which you manage during play. Earning resources can
increase your hero’s power, and Resources are spent to activate your most powerful abilities.

Your hero’s class description has more information about how to use your Heroic Resource.

#### BAGS OF RATS AIN'T HEROIC

Some players might think that quickly starting a fight with some bar patrons or carrying around a bag of rats is a good
way to gather up those sweet, sweet Victories and Heroic Resources. Those strategies don’t work! The rules of the game
exist to help you tell a cool heroic fantasy story, not so you can try to be clever and exploit them by harming innocent
rats to “win.” In order to generate Victories and Heroic Resources, you must face and overcome challenges worthy of a
hero!

### RECOVERIES

Recoveries represent the number of times your hero can take a breather and keep fighting. Running out of Recoveries
means your hero has reached their uttermost limit. You can spend your Recoveries with a special action (see below) or
you might get a little magical help from a conduit, a boost of adrenaline from an allied tactician, or inspiration from
your party’s troubadour.

When you spend a Recovery, you regain Stamina equal to your recovery value, which is one-third your Stamina maximum.

#### SPENDING RECOVERIES

During combat encounters and similarly dangerous situations when time is tracked in rounds (see *Combat*), you can use
the *Catch Breath* action to regain Stamina. See *Catch Breath* in *Actions* for more information. Some heroes have
abilities that allow them or their allies to spend more Recoveries without using the *Catch Breath* action.

Outside of combat and other dangerous situations, you can spend Recoveries freely.

#### REGAINING RECOVERIES

You regain all lost Recoveries when you finish a respite (see *Respite*).

### RESPITE

A respite is a focused period of rest and recuperation that allows heroes to regain Stamina and Recoveries. During a
respite, you must spend 24 hours uninterrupted and doing nothing but sleeping, eating, dressing your wounds, and
recuperating in a safe place. You can also undertake one respite activity, such as making a project roll (see *Research
and Crafting* in future packets for more information), or changing your kit (see *Kits*).

When you finish a respite, you regain all your Recoveries and Stamina, and your Victories convert to Experience. It is
best to take a respite in a safe place where you aren’t in a hostile environment or at risk of being attacked. If your
respite is interrupted by enemies attacking, an earth tremor, swarms of biting insects, or similar serious distractions,
the respite ends early and you don’t gain the benefits for finishing it.

The standard eight-ish hours of sleep one gets at night doesn’t count as a respite. The rules assume that all heroes
take the time to sleep, eat, and take care of all the other functions necessary for life even if they aren’t engaged in
a respite.

## ORDEN AND THE TIMESCAPE

A new game demands new worlds! Welcome to the timescape—a collection of worlds spanning high fantasy, dark fantasy, and
even space fantasy! We sincerely hope you take these rules and adapt them to your own world, or adapt your world to
these rules, or something in between!

Our tour begins on the world of Orden, the Prime Manifold—a realm of elves, dwarves, humans, orcs, dragons, and more.
But human civilization and politics dominate here, especially in the great city of Capital, a hotbed of urban fantasy
intrigue.

Orden contains seven major regions, the largest of which is Vasloria.

### VASLORIA

A forested medieval and feudal land, Vasloria holds few cities—just towns and villages. Western Vasloria, including most
of Aendrim and Corwell and parts of Graid, was until recently ruled by Good King Omund. His draconian knights, the
Dragon Phalanx, protected the weak from the strong, dispensing justice throughout the land. But Omund died fifteen years
ago—and so died the rule of law in Vasloria. Now, forests claim towns and roads once held safe under his rule. The woods
are dangerous, their only law that of tooth and claw.

When Omund was betrayed by Mandrake, a captain of the Dragon Phalanx, his castle fell to Ajax the Invincible—now called
the Overlord and the Iron Saint. Ajax’s wizard Mortum unlocked the secret of the ancient flying cities of the sky elves
to raise the Chrysopolis, Ajax’s city-fortress in the sky.

Ajax abolished all faiths and temples in Vasloria. He executed the dukes who served King Omund loyally, leaving only the
three surviving baronies of Dalrath, Bedegar, and Tor to hold human civilization together. Once, the people of all the
lands of Vasloria were loose allies. There was trade between humans, elves, dwarves, and orcs.

Now there is only suspicion.

The high elves of the Fallen City, once the sky elf city of Irranys, pay tribute to Ajax with ancient artifacts they
plunder from their ruined home. The wode elves of the Orchid Court, lacking any centralized government or cities, refuse
to bow to the Iron Saint.

The dwarves of Kal Kalavar pay tribute in prisoners they abduct from among those foolish enough to travel the roads
unescorted—prisoners who serve Ajax as forced labor or are fed into the Body Banks. Brooding under the mountains in
their fabled Hanging City of Kal Kalavar, the stone dwarves do not like this deal with the Overlord, but they lack the
power—or perhaps the will—to rebel.

The Hawklords of the High Aerie now act as Ajax’s royal guard. Mounted on their giant hawks, these human warriors
project Ajax’s power, enforce his tyrannical order, and extend his influence into every corner of the wilderness. Their
mastery of the air means that any revolt or rebellion is seen and crushed quickly. The Dragon Phalanx is broken now, its
knights scattered.

Ajax has placed a high bounty on their heads. Some folk still see Omund’s knights as symbols of justice, heroes of a
lost age before might made right. But in every town, every village, there are always desperate people willing to collect
the bounty, summoning the Hawklords to pluck any dragon knight foolish enough to travel without a disguise away to the
Chrysopolis.

The peoples of Dalrath, Bedegar, and Tor, isolated and outnumbered, desperately fight a losing battle against the
encroaching wilderness. Law dies. Chaos thrives.

### CAPITAL

The Greatest City in This or Any Age! City of the Great Game! Located west across the Bale Sea from Vasloria on the
eastern coast of Rioja, Capital is not only the largest city in Orden. It’s the largest city there has ever been—larger
than the fabled steel dwarf capital of Kalas Valiar, larger even than Alloy, the City at the Center of the Timescape.
Capital is the exception to many rules.

It is a city of playwrights and opera, of spies and sorcery. Famed throughout the world as a city of high magic where
flying tapestries act as taxis. But the reality of living in Capital is somewhat more mundane, for only the very wealthy
can afford such luxuries.

#### THE GREAT HOUSES

The Great Houses, Capital’s ancient noble families, reluctantly share power with the upstart guilds who think that their
vast wealth entitles them to rule. The members of the Great Houses are proud of their city, and believe anyone, from
anywhere, should be able to come to Capital and earn a living, own property, expect justice. They just don’t think
anyone else should be able to rule. The guilds of the city, by contrast, are more egalitarian, more democratic, largely
obsessed with accruing wealth—and caring little for the welfare of the city or its people.

The Great Game is espionage, and House Alvaro are the best players in the world. Led by Duke Prospero, House Alvaro
sponsors the Imperial University, the greatest center of learning in the world. Nobles from across Orden, including from
lands as far away as Vanigar, send their children to learn diplomacy and statecraft at the university. The greatest
spies in the world are all graduates of the Actian School, one of the university’s many colleges, which once doubled as
the intelligence agency of Capital’s late prince.

House Vorona runs the city’s navy, the largest military organization of any kind in Orden. Their engineers perfected the
secret of blackpowder and guard it jealously. The Imperial Navy’s cannons protect trade across Orden, placing Capital at
the center of international affairs. Vorona’s Far Mariners, aka the marines, are the closest thing to a citywide law
enforcement organization. Each Great House is expected to police its own district.

Duke Marco Vorona sponsors the Imperial War College, also known as the Academy. A prestigious institution rivaling any
college of the Imperial University, the Academy boasts graduates among all the noble families in Orden. This widespread
allegiance creates a vast informal network in the city, referred to cynically as the Old Class Ring, that gives House
Vorona access to intelligence that other factions can only dream of.

House Navarr, the oldest of the Great Houses, enforces the law of the Church of Saint Ysabella the Pitiless, which they
call justice. The house is led by His Grace Orsino, Duke Navarr, archbishop of that most powerful church in the city.
Under his rule, House Navarr consolidates a vast network of different churches and knights across the region under one
elaborate system of patronage.

Arguably the most powerful Great House, House Valetta controls the city’s tax collectors, known as the Arbitros Fiat.
Valetta is led by the Duchess Lenore, who opened the Codex Mortis while in mourning for her assassinated husband Maximo,
speaking a ritual from that ancient necromantic artifact that should have returned her love to life. Instead, she
brought about the Lilac Night, which transformed everyone in her district into undead—including herself. The Duchess
Lenore is now an immortal vampire queen, a dead lady ruling over a dead city.

#### THE POWER OF THE GUILDS

After the Lilac Night, with the city no longer able to rely on House Valetta to deliver the taxes it collected, Lady
Shirome bought Great House status for the Fulcrum—the city’s assayer’s guild she controls—along with the Broadsheet
Guild and the Farrier’s Guild. The Fulcrum controls the Trade Integrity Board, which sets lending rates and leads trade
negotiations between Capital and other governments in Orden. It was that guild that convinced the late prince to switch
the city to paper money. As a result, Capital is the first and only city in Orden to have a robust monetary policy.

The Broadsheet Guild, formally known as the Font, publishes the thrice-daily news sheets that everyone in the city
reads. Guildmaster Inān al-Adwiyya uses a vast network of young people called the Paperfeathers to deliver and sell the
broadsheets throughout the city. Lady al-Adwiyya knows almost everything happening anywhere in Capital.

The Farrier’s Guild, popularly known as the Rasp, controls transport throughout the city. The guild is led by Lord
Kashimir, a heliox from the planar gateway city of Alloy. It was he who introduced the flying tapestries that
metaphorically shrank Capital, allowing the rich and powerful to cross the thirteen-mile-wide city in just a few
minutes. He also created the Kites, couriers famous for being able to get a message to anywhere in Capital in only a few
hours. His monopoly on importing flying tapestries from Alloy gives Lord Kashimir enormous power, and he is not shy
about wanting more.

### THE MYRIAD WORLDS OF THE TIMESCAPE

Orden is only one world in the timescape! Each star in the night sky is another world, though this fact is not known to
most people living on Orden. Higher worlds are more energetic, affording access to alien technologies. Great star
freighters ply the space lanes, with knights wielding psionically powered hard-light blades dueling against star pirates
with hard-light blasters.

The lower worlds lack the energy necessary for such extraordinary technology to function and so rely on magic to break
the rules.

On Axiom, the Plane of Uttermost Law, the memonek live on a world teeming with complex, inorganic life. UNISOL, the
Universal Solar League, ensures and protects trade across the upper worlds, defending the star freighters from pirates
such as the time raiders and the infamous Sunrunners on their legendary ship the *K.R.A.D Fearless*.

Meanwhile, on Proteus, the Sea of Eternal Change, the formless proteans rebelled against the synlirii who once ruled the
plane of uttermost chaos, exiling the voiceless talkers to the World Below. Now the masters of their world, the proteans
take to the stars in their living change-ships, hurling their small fleet against what they perceive as the tyrannical
might of UNISOL.

On Quintessence, the lowest of the upper worlds, proteans and memonek alike rub shoulders with devils, fire dwarves, and
even humans in Quintessence’s capital city of Alloy, the City at the Center of the Timescape. The Free City of Alloy,
also known as the City of Brass, is the gateway to the timescape. People traveling to or from the upper and lower worlds
meet here to trade goods and information, free from the inflexible laws of UNISOL.

Traveling downward from Quintessence, one arrives on Orden, the Plane of Gods and Sorcery, highest of the lower worlds
where magic rules. The gods, forbidden from interfering directly in a world with such a low energy state, rely on saints
to enact their will. The technology from the upper worlds does not function down here, unless powered by a strong
psionic mind or the miracle mineral prismacore.

Almost coterminous with Orden is its sister-plane, the World Below, the Dark Under All. This plane of exiles is ruled by
A Lie Cloaked In Star’s Silver—the Queen of Night, and the first of the Three Sisters Below. The World Below is a land
of vast caves and sunless seas. There are no stars here, no sky, only endless caves and warrens. Some of those are vast
enough to hold entire cities, including Or-Mazaar, the City of the Black Sun, from where the Queen of Night rules.

The power of the World Below wanes, even as the power of Equinox waxes. Also known as Dusk, this smaller parasitic
manifold is home to the exiled shadow elves and ruled by the Queen of Shadows, third of the Three Sisters Below. She
plots to return her people to their homeland in Orden, and to escape the twisted shadow world.

The last plane of law, the Seven Cities of Hell, is among the lowest of the lower planes. A realm of devils proud of
their civilization, the Seven Cities are each ruled by an archduke who schemes to ascend to the Throne of Hell. Living
in a world of bureaucratic law, the devil denizens of Hell have little interest in the other planes. Life is so much
more interesting down here. The seven dukes of hell conspired together once, agreeing to create the Order of Desolation,
also known as the illriggers. Doing so was meant to extend their power into the timescape, and to defend the Seven
Cities from the demon hordes below.

The demons of the Abyssal Waste, the lowest plane, claw and scramble over each other, competing for souls in this
heat-blasted desert under a baleful, giant orange sun.

Mindless collections of organs, claws, and teeth, demons collect souls until they reach sentience, gaining identity and
the blessing of memory. These demons will do anything to escape upward out of the wasteland, lest they lose their
collected souls, lose their identities, and fall into that mindless state called lethe.

At the center of the Abyssal Waste lies the Necropolitan Ruin, the Last City. A great city of the dead, the site is
ruled by Khorsekef, once the Infinite Pharaoh of the desert wasteland of Khemhara, now the Ultralich. Khorsekef intends
to return to Orden and sit once again on his throne in the grand Heliopolis at the center of Khemhara—and he has a
plan …

#### THE TIMESCAPE IN YOUR GAME

We use the timescape and its medieval fantasy land Orden as the default setting presented in these books. Doing so makes
it easier for us as designers to marry our design with real examples from a real (imaginary) fantasy world. We also
think it’s easier for you to take the names for places, languages, and gods, and replace them with your own. We might
reference some hero or villain, saint or god, whose name makes you think, “Well, I don’t have that in my setting.” If we
do a good job, though, you might be inspired to say, “But that makes me think …” And being inspired is part of the fun!

If you’re the Director, you can use as many or as few of the details of the timescape as you like. You might wish to
create your own world within the timescape, or use a setting you’ve created that exists outside of the official MCDM
manifolds. You can use details from settings published by other companies. There are no rules when it comes to
world-building. Feel free to take what you like from this book and change the rest. For example, you might not care for
our dwarves having literal stone skin. That’s fine. You can make them fleshy, stout, bearded folk, or mohawked,
barrel-chested punk rockers, or anything else you wish. As long as you’re running a heroic fantasy campaign about
fighting monsters, then the game’s rules are still likely to serve your narrative even if that narrative deviates from
ours.

If you’re a player, ask your Director about the setting where the game takes place and discuss with them the sort of
hero you want to create. Maybe you want to play a more traditional gruff and bearded dwarf rather than go all short and
stony. An open dialogue and honest discussion with your Director can lead to everyone getting what they want out of the
game.

## ECHELONS OF PLAY

The core gameplay experience of Draw Steel takes place over 10 levels of play. At 1st level, player characters are
already known as heroes and have the power to save their local village. By 10th level, people all over the world know
the names of their saviors … maybe all the worlds!

Since this game encompasses power levels from hometown to demigods, the core experience has been divided into four
different echelons, which indicate the types of threats the heroes take on, the stakes of their stories, and the rewards
they receive at various levels of play.

### 1ST ECHELON (LEVELS 1–3)

The 1st echelon of play encompasses levels 1 to 3. At this echelon, the player characters are local heroes. They save
lost caravans, besieged villages, and overlooked neighborhoods of cities. The heroes battle bands of mortal
humanoids—dwarves, elves, goblins, humans, kobolds, orcs. They face the occasional larger monstrous threat, such as a
bredbeddle, ogre, or chimera. These are the kinds of creatures that can threaten a small community, but rarely have
plans for world domination or the destruction of the timescape. However, the adversaries might work for or be
manipulated by a stronger threat as a foreshadowing of what awaits the hero at higher echelons.

### 2ND ECHELON (LEVELS 4–6)

The 2nd echelon of play encompasses levels 4 to 6. At this echelon, heroes are now known throughout the wider region
they serve. In Vasloria, this means that they’re saving and celebrated by an entire country. In Capital, their
reputation and work now encompasses several different neighborhoods of the enormous city. Heroes of the timescape might
be known for saving a planet!

Heroes in this echelon battle humanoids of great supernatural power, such as draconians, devils, and hobgoblins. The
bosses they face possess cunning and ambition as great as their terrible power, such as medusas and overminds. Heroes at
this level also face the humanoid threats of earlier levels, but these foes are their villainous counterparts of equal
power instead of bands of ruffians or marauding armies.

### 3RD ECHELON (LEVELS 7–9)

The 3rd echelon of play encompasses levels 7 to 9. At this echelon, heroes are saving and known throughout the setting
where they serve. Most folks in Vasloria, Capital, or the timescape itself know of the heroes and are grateful for their
efforts saving the continent, massive city, or many worlds, respectively. Foes at this echelon include beings of great
power, such as giants, vampires, and valok.

### 4TH ECHELON (LEVEL 10)

The 4th echelon of play encompasses level 10 (and possibly beyond in future products). At this echelon, heroes are
saving the entire timescape from threats like liches, powerful dragons, and Ajax the Invincible.

# MAKING A HERO

If you’re not the Director, then you create and play one of the main characters in the game’s story—a hero. Your hero is
a person motivated to fight forces of evil to protect the innocent, but each hero has their own personal reason for
doing so. You don’t have to be a pure beacon of good. Heroes have flaws and are complex, just like people in the real
world. But your hero should be someone who isn’t afraid to battle monsters for altruistic reasons. If you’re only
interested in playing a money-grubbing sellsword, you can achieve that with these rules, but you’ll likely be happier
playing another game.

The hero you create will be roleplayed by you. Often when referring to your hero, the rules use second-person pronouns (
you/your) for shorthand, only making a distinction between you and your hero when that distinction is important.

## YOUR FIRST SESSION

Getting together with your friends to make characters can be a lot of fun. Many groups spend most of their first session
talking about the campaign’s story, making heroes, and going over expectations for the game. It’s a great way to kick
off a long-term campaign.

The Director should make an agenda for a campaign’s first session—often called “session zero”—which can include any of
the following items:

- The Director and players talk about the safety tools they want to employ at the game table (whether physical or
  virtual), so that everyone has a good time and understands which topics should be avoided in the game’s narrative and
  which should be embraced. For more information, check out the MCDM Tabletop Safety Toolkit
  at [mcdm.gg/SafetyToolkit](http://mcdm.gg/SafetyToolkit), which includes advice for running a successful session zero.
- The Director discusses the campaign’s world and the major story themes they want to introduce into the game.
- The Director should tell the players if there are any options that are limited or rare in their campaign. For example,
  some Director’s don’t want psionics to make an appearance in their game worlds, so they might decide that heroes can’t
  be nulls or talents. Another campaign might be grounded in more typical medieval fantasy and not have any memonek or
  time raiders, or those ancestries might be exceedingly rare, leading heroes with those ancestries to get a lot of
  questions from curious NPCs.
- The players get a chance to tell the Director what they would like to see in the campaign. This can include anything
  from “I’d love to play out some chase scenes!” to “I want to explore themes of loss and grief.” These wishes should be
  starting points for a conversation. If not all players are comfortable with certain themes or content requested by
  other players, then session zero is a great time to discuss that and come to a consensus about what everyone wants out
  of the game.
- Make heroes! Once everyone understands what the campaign is about, it’s the perfect time to get into character
  creation. When a group of players make heroes together, they can tie backstories together and strategize to build a
  tactically dominant party both in and out of combat.
- The Director runs an encounter to kick off the campaign. If all the players have the time, it’s totally worth it to
  get some play in during the first session, even if it’s just a quick brawl in a tavern with some cultists! Giving the
  players a little action lets them see what the game is all about—and leaves them excited for the next session.

## STEP-BY-STEP HERO MAKING

Use the following step-by-step guide to create a hero. These steps are presented in what we believe is the best way to
approach making your first hero for Draw Steel. That said, the order of the steps is still a suggestion, not a hard and
fast rule.

Many players like to build a hero from the backstory up, making ancestry and culture ideal first choices. However, some
players like to start more in the present, choosing an inciting incident and a class—the choices with the most potential
impact on what your character can do in the game—and then going back and figuring out where their hero came from.
There’s no wrong way to do it!

You’ll want a character sheet to fill out while you make your hero.

> **Playtest note:** The character sheet is still to come.

### 1. THINK

The first thing you should do is think about the kind of hero you want to make. Ask yourself the following questions:

- Do you fight with weapons, magic, psionics, or some combination of these abilities?
- Outside of combat, what do you want your hero to do well?
- What did you do before becoming a hero?
- Why did you choose to become a hero?
- What is your personality like?
- What people, places, and objects are important to you?
- How will your hero complement the strengths and weaknesses of the other heroes?

#### AMBITION IS GOOD!

Heroes are not just along for the ride in the Director’s story. They’re active participants, who make decisions that
change their communities and eventually worlds or even the entirety of the timescape! It is good for your hero to have
desires, to want to found an organization, seek justice for someone who was wronged, or want to craft a magic sword that
will help you defeat your foes. It’s only when that personal ambition becomes more important than the group’s story that
it becomes a problem. But if you share your character’s ambitions with your Director, they can weave those desires in
with the narrative. Character creation is a great time to do this.

As the story evolves, your hero’s ambitions could change. That’s not a bad thing—dynamic characters are awesome. If they
do, make sure you have a conversation with your Director about it, so they can plan accordingly.

### 2. ANCESTRY

Choose your hero’s humanoid ancestry from among the range of ancestries available in the game—devil, dragon knight,
dwarf, hakaan, high elf, human, memonek, orc, polder, revenant, time raider, or wode elf. Future supplements will
introduce additional ancestries you can choose from. See Ancestries for more information.

### 3. CULTURE

Create your hero’s culture. Although ancestry gives your hero a number of physiological benefits, your culture describes
the community that raised you and gives you languages and skills. See Culture for more information.

### 4. CAREER

Choose your hero’s career, which describes what you did for a living before you became a hero. Your career gives you
skills and a title, and might also give you languages, Renown, or knowledge for crafting and research. See Careers for
more information.

#### I SPEAK THEIR LANGUAGE

Choosing languages at the start of a campaign can be hard, because you might not know which are going to be the most
impactful for a game. You can choose to keep some of the languages you know blank until you discover what might be a
good choice for the campaign you’re playing in. Once you decide to take a language, you can reveal your choice in a
dramatic moment, perhaps during a negotiation where your language would help or just after you find a tome that no other
hero in your crew can read.

### 5. CLASS

Choose your hero’s class. This choice has the biggest impact on how your hero interacts with the rules of the game,
especially the rules for combat. Your class provides your characteristic scores and Stamina, in addition to skills,
several abilities, and other benefits. You can be a censor, conduit, elementalist, fury, null, shadow, tactician,
talent, or troubadour. See Classes for more information.

### 6. KIT

If your class gives your hero a kit, choose your hero’s kit. Your kit provides you with equipment and a fighting style
that grants a signature ability and bonuses to one or more of your game statistics.

### 7. ADD FREE STRIKES

The simplest and most basic attack you can make, categorically worse than every other option, free strike abilities are
those attacks you can make when it’s not your turn. An enemy is foolish enough to walk away from you in melee? Free
strike! Every hero has both a melee and ranged weapon free strike, they’re all the same (until modified by your kit or
class) and it’s up to you to decide what exactly these attacks are. A thrown dagger? A punch? The design is intended to
let you use your imagination.

Free strikes also let you make attacks on your turn even if your hero isn’t otherwise themed to do so. A bow-using wode
elf can still stab an enemy with a dagger as a free strike, and a greataxe-wielding orc fury can still pull out a hand
axe and hurl it at a flying enemy staying annoyingly out of melee range as a free strike.

#### MELEE WEAPON FREE STRIKE

- **Keywords:** Attack, Melee, Weapon
- **Type:** Action
- **Distance:** Melee 1
- **Target:** 1 creature or object

**Power Roll + Might or Agility:**

- 11 or lower: 2 damage
- 12–16: 5 damage
- 17+: 7 damage

#### RANGED WEAPON FREE STRIKE

- **Keywords:** Attack, Ranged, Weapon
- **Type:** Action
- **Distance:** Ranged 5
- **Target:** 1 creature or object

**Power Roll + Might or Agility:**

- 11 or lower: 2 damage
- 12–16: 4 damage
- 17+: 6 damage

See Free Strikes for more information on using free strikes, and see Abilities for information on the ability format.

### 8. COMPLICATION

Complications represent those dramatic moments in a character’s backstory that give them pathos, a dramatic reason to be
an outsider, to doubt the meaning of their life, to avoid intimacy, or rage against an enemy from their past.
Complications grant a benefit and a drawback. They can make a character more three-dimensional, but they are not
necessary for making a great hero. Check with your Director to make sure your game is using them. See Complications for
more information.

### 9. DETERMINE DETAILS

Once you’ve created your hero, it’s time to determine the additional details of their backstory, appearance, and
personality. How do the events of their culture, career, inciting incident, and class tie together into a cohesive
narrative? What’s their name? What do they look like? Do they have any cool scars? Any dope tattoos? Do they still sleep
with their teddy bear? These sorts of details can help define a well-rounded hero.

### 10. MAKE CONNECTIONS

Ask the Director if all the heroes start the campaign knowing each other. If they do, talk to the other players and
build some connections between your heroes. If you like, you can use the following prompts to make those connections, or
to come up with prompts of your own:

- While fighting a monster, another hero saved your life. What were you battling and who saved you?

- In your group, who looks after everyone’s health and well-being and makes sure that all the characters get along? If
  it’s not you, how do you view this other hero?
- Who is the grumpiest member of your party? If it isn’t you, how do you react to that hero’s sour nature? If it is you,
  how do you react to other characters teasing you or trying to cheer you up?
- What’s one thing your fellow heroes know about you that other people do not?
- What’s your favorite way to bond with your fellow heroes?
- You’ve known one of the other heroes in your party longer than the rest. Who is it, and how did you meet?
- Another hero creates food, music, clothing, trinkets, or something else that you enjoy. Who is that hero and what do
  they make?
- Another hero is teaching you a new skill. Who is it, and what are they teaching you?

Answer these questions with the other players present, and be sure to get a player’s approval if your answer makes use
of their character.

#### CHOOSING SKILLS

This game has lots of skills, and lots of opportunities during character creation to gain them. We recommend recording a
list of all the skills you might gain from the different steps of the character creation process, then making your
choices at the end of that process rather than flipping back and forth through the book.

If you gain the same specific skill from two different sources (for instance, from a career and a class), you can pick a
different skill from the same skill group. See Skills for more information.

## CHANGING CHARACTER OPTIONS

If you pick a skill, ability, class, or any other option that you end up not liking after using it in the game—even your
character’s ancestry—you can always freely change that option between game sessions. If you want to change an option
during a session, ask your Director. If they say it’s fine to swap that option out for something else, go for it.

## HEROIC ADVANCEMENT

Your character’s heroic advancement is marked by level. Each time you gain a new level in your class, your Stamina
increases, and you gain new features or abilities according to your class’s advancement, as detailed in Classes.

In the standard setup for the game, heroes gain Experience each time they finish a respite. When you gain sufficient
Experience, you gain a level during the same respite (see Building a Heroic Narrative). The Heroic Advancement table
shows how much Experience (XP) you need to advance from one level to the next. The amount of Experience you gain is
cumulative.

### HEROIC ADVANCEMENT TABLE

| XP      | Level |
|---------|-------|
| 0–9     | 1     |
| 10–24   | 2     |
| 25–39   | 3     |
| 40–54   | 4     |
| 55–69   | 5     |
| 70–84   | 6     |
| 85–99   | 7     |
| 100–114 | 8     |
| 115–129 | 9     |
| 130+    | 10    |

### ALTERNATIVE ADVANCEMENT

Though many games might advance using the standard setup for heroic advancement, the Director can decide that their game
uses different advancement. Check with your Director to see what method of advancement they plan to use.

#### ADJUSTED XP ADVANCEMENT

Some Directors prefer that heroes level up faster or slower to suit the pace of their story. The Adjusted XP Advancement
table is set up for campaigns where heroes advance at double or half the usual pace. Directors can also create their own
customized pace for XP-based advancement.

| Level | XP for Double Speed | XP for Half Speed |
|-------|---------------------|-------------------|
| 1     | 0–4                 | 0–19              |
| 2     | 5–12                | 20–49             |
| 3     | 13–20               | 50–79             |
| 4     | 21–28               | 80–109            |
| 5     | 29–36               | 110–139           |
| 6     | 37–43               | 140–169           |
| 7     | 44–51               | 170–199           |
| 8     | 52–58               | 200–229           |
| 9     | 59–65               | 230–259           |
| 10    | 66+                 | 260+              |

#### MILESTONE

Rather than tracking XP, some games see the heroes advance in level when they achieve a particular story milestone. For
example, when a party defeats the main villain of an adventure and foils their dastardly plot, each hero gains a level
for achieving this objective, no matter how many or few obstacles they faced along the way.

For many Directors using milestone advancement, the end of each adventure within a campaign serves as a milestone for
leveling up. The Director can share these milestones with the players to encourage them to work toward particular goals,
and to engage with the story and world the Director has prepared. For example, in a campaign where the heroes have to
face nine evil mages, it makes sense that each time the heroes defeat a mage, they gain a level. The Director should
keep milestone goals flexible, though. Defeating a mage could mean stopping them with violence, using negotiation to
make them stand down, or anything else that thwarts their evil plans.

#### DIRECTOR SAYS SO

Some games don’t track XP or goals at all. The heroes simply gain a level whenever the Director decides it’s appropriate
for the story.

# ANCESTRIES

Fantastic peoples inhabit the worlds of Draw Steel. Among them are devils, dwarves, elves, time raiders—even humans with
their ability to sense the supernatural. Your hero is one of these folks! The fantastic ancestry you choose bestows
benefits that come from your anatomy and physiology. This choice doesn’t grant you cultural benefits, like crafting or
lore skills. While many game settings have cultures made of mostly one ancestry, other cultures and worlds have a
cosmopolitan mix of peoples.

Ancestry describes how you were born. Culture (in the next chapter) describes how you grew up. If you want to be a wode
elf who was raised in a forest among other wode elves, you can do that! If you want to play a wode elf who was raised in
an underground city of dwarves, humans, and orcs, you can do that too!

## ON THE ORIGIN OF SPECIES

Orden is a fantasy world. It works on principles similar to those many people throughout history believed governed the
real world. “I dunno, a god did it probably.” Humans, elves, orcs, dwarves, dragons, all have creator gods—the elder
gods, four of whom made the world for some reason. Maybe they were bored.

The fashion among those gods for creating new, intelligent, species petered out after the orcs. Once humans came along
and invented war, it stopped being fun.

It may be all species were created by gods. That’s certainly what a lot of people throughout our own history assumed.
Orden has no Darwin and probably won’t ever. There’s still inheritance. People expect children to look like their
parents, but there aren’t evolutionary pressures except on a very local scale.

And in a world where powerful, world-altering magics are available, mortals sometimes try to recreate the gods' efforts.
Some succeed, and new intelligent, speaking peoples are born.

However, mortals are not gods and lack their ineffable wisdom. They are, in fact, very effable. Many have sought the
power to create. It is available to any sorcerer of near-godlike power with the right rituals, though these days that
power is very obscure. Creating new intelligent species was easier for mortal wizards back in the youth of the world
when magic was friskier.

In every instance in recorded history, attempts by mortals to make obedient servitor species backfire. The steel dwarves
worked marvels with valiar, the truemetal, and the miracle mineral iridoss, known as prismacore, that grants objects a
semblance of life. Eventually, their science and magics produced the omnivok, machines that were self-aware. Perhaps
uniquely, when the dwarves realized they had created beings equal to themselves they stopped their work and gave their
creation full rights and independence, preferring to work with them rather than attempt, and inevitably fail, to be
their masters.

Normally, it doesn’t work out that nicely. Even with the best of intentions, things go awry. The Dragon Phalanx were
created by Good King Omund’s wizard Vitae to be the perfect knights, dispensing justice throughout the lands. But the
same sorceries that grant self-awareness also grant independence. Agency. And though they enjoyed thirty years of peace
and justice, eventually the dragon knights were betrayed by one of their own, seduced by the power offered by Ajax.

The law of unintended consequences applies to the just and the unjust alike.

Usually, when some powerful being tries to create an intelligent species, it’s for less than virtuous reasons. The
synliroi are responsible for several intelligent species in the timescape, each an attempt to create a perfectly
obedient servitor species. The most notorious example are the kuran’zoi, the time raiders who rebelled almost
immediately and carry a burning hate for the voiceless talkers to this day.

A perhaps less egregious use of this power is called quickening. Used when a powerful mage lives in and amongst some
clever species just on the cusp of self-awareness. These instances, which are much more numerous than creating a new
species from whole cloth, are more like the concept of uplifting found in science fiction. The mage or witch or shaman
didn’t create anything. They just gave these cute, clever, frog-things a little boost. A little nudge. And suddenly
there are angualotls walking around having conversations with each other, wondering when someone will invent a fabric
that doesn’t get moldy in the swamp.

This also carries serious ethical repercussions! “You didn’t create angulotls! You screwed up some perfectly good frogs!
Look at them, you gave them anxiety!”

This is only how it works on Orden. You may have completely different explanations for why there are several different
intelligent species walking around in your world. Or no explanation! Or competing and irreconcilable theories on the
matter! Use whatever inspires you.

At the end of the day, if you throw out all of this and replace it with something you made up, it will be better.
Because it’s yours!

## STARTING SIZE AND SPEED

Unless otherwise noted, a character from any of these ancestries is size 1M and has a speed of 5 and a stability of 0.

Where an ancestry provides you with an ability, see Abilities for details of the ability format.

## ANCESTRY TRAIT

Each ancestry has at least one signature trait, which your hero gets for free if they take the ancestry. This is a
defining feature that other heroes of your ancestry also possess.

There are also purchased traits. You don’t get every purchased trait your ancestry has to offer. Instead, your ancestry
details a budget of ancestry points you can use to...

purchase traits. Each trait has a point cost that you pay to grant the benefit to your hero.

For example, the devil ancestry has the signature trait **Silver Tongue** and 3 ancestry points to spend on seven
different traits. A player creating a devil hero could buy **Barbed Tail**, **Big Horns**, and **Glowing Eyes**, which
each cost 1 ancestry point, or they could buy one of those traits and purchase **Beast Legs** or **Wings**, which each
cost 2 points. They couldn’t buy both **Beast Legs** and **Wings**, since their combined cost is 4, which is over the
ancestry points budget for the devil.

## DEVIL

"Go to hell!"  
"You know, I have a rather interesting story about that..."

The native ancestry of the Seven Cities of Hell, devils are humanoids with red or blue skin expressed in a wide variety
of hues, from bright crimson to deep purple. Each devil is born with some hellmark—horns, a tail, cloven hooves, a
forked tongue, fanged incisors, or even wings. Hell is dominated by the Seven Cities of Hell, each ruled by a different
archdevil who constantly plots and schemes against the others in the hope of ascending to the Throne of Hell.

Those devils who join "the trade," as their civil service is called, spend their days in bureaucratic service hoping or
scheming for promotion. Devils looking for a quick path up the bureaucratic ladder sign up for the Exchange, whereby
mortals in the mundane world who perform the right rituals can summon a devil, who bargains with the supplicant on
behalf of their archdevil. Archdevils can grant temporary worldly power in exchange for a supplicant’s soul, with the
summoned devil acting as the broker.

On rare occasions, though, the summoning goes wrong and the supplicant dies before the deal can be struck, stranding the
summoned devil on Orden permanently. Some stranded devils seek to return to Hell, but most prefer life in Orden, where
the phrase "stabbed in the back by a colleague" is usually a metaphor.

The majority of devils in Orden are not from, nor have ever been to, the Seven Cities. They are descendants of devils
who were stranded in the mundane world decades, centuries, even millennia ago.

### ON DEVILS

Adelard scuttled across the floor of his basement, a heavy tome clutched in one hand, his index finger marking a page.
Occasionally he would stop, open the book, consult a diagram, look at the chalk markings he’d made on the floor, tilt
his head, then bend down and refine or rub out an esoteric symbol.

One of the red candles suddenly guttered out, making the small room noticeably darker. "Damn and blast!" he hissed. Then
he relit it from another candle.

Stepping back to admire his handiwork, Adelard crossed his arms and nodded. He’d spent his last coppers on the
candles—they weren’t cheap. And he feared the skull might be fake, but did it matter? The book just said *a skull*—it
didn’t even specify *a human skull*! Did it matter if it was real? It was probably real. What kind of market was there
for replica skulls? But it was awfully cheap. Anyway, did it matter? How would the ritual know if the skull was real?

He was wittering, putting off the inevitable. He pulled himself together. It was either going to work, or it wasn’t, and
wittering wasn’t going to help. He opened the book and turned the page—then began to speak the ritual.

Moments later, the candles flared, there was a burst of flame, and acrid brimstone filled his nostrils. When the smoke
cleared... there was a devil standing in his basement—dark purple skin, horns, even a twitching tail.

"Aha! Yes, finally." It rubbed its hands together. "It’s about time," the creature said, pulling on the bottom of his
waistcoat to straighten it. "Now then! How does it go? Oh, yes." He cleared his throat. "On behalf of my lord, his grace
Archduke Dispater, Lord of Dis, I am empowered to offer you..." But his speech fell on deaf ears.

"It worked!" Adelard said, holding his clenched fists up. "Ahahaha! It worked! Finally, after years! I will have my
revenge! Hahaha...!" *cough* *cough* Adelard was suddenly gripped by a coughing fit, but he kept crowing.

"Dismiss me from service, will they?! *cough* Old and useless... am I?! I’ll show them!" He coughed again, fighting to
breathe now. "I will hex them and torture them until they..."

He stopped cavorting and capering, and his eyes went wide. "Until they... until..." He clutched his chest.

"Uh-oh," the devil said, genuinely worried.

"HNNG!" Adelard grunted. Then he collapsed to the ground, curled into a fetal position, obviously in immense pain.

"No, no. Nurse!" the devil called out. "Doctor!? Is anyone... you should lie down. Well, you are lying down. Do some...
some deep-breathing exercises. Have a cup of tea! That always..."

Adelard gasped one last time and uncurled, muscles relaxed. Eyes open but unseeing.

"... calms me down," the devil said quietly.

Suddenly, the candles were extinguished as one, plunging the room into pitch-blackness. The devil’s hellsight meant this
was only a minor inconvenience for him. "Um," he said to the empty room. "Uh-oh."

He poked the tip of his boot at the chalk symbol surrounding him on the floor. Nothing happened. He stepped on it.
Nothing happened. He put his weight on that foot. No alarms went off.

He walked out of the circle. Nothing happened. No one, it seemed, cared.

A few moments later, the door to a small home, little more than a wooden shack, on the outskirts of a small village
opened. A well-dressed devil peeked out and then slowly emerged, stepping onto the dirt road that led through the center
of the village. A keep stood atop a hill in the distance.
"Ah," the devil said.

A wide woman dressed in wool, carrying a pile of clean clothes, saw him and stopped in her tracks, her mouth open.

"Oh! Good day to you madam, I wonder if you could tell me..."

"AAAHHHHH!!!" she screamed. For quite a long time. Then she dropped her laundry and ran.

"Ah. Um. Hmm."

A young man in a low, stone building saw this exchange, grabbed what looked like a long iron poker, and ran out to
confront the new arrival.

"Have at you, devil!" he said, assuming something like a dueling pose.

"I say! Steady on!" The devil raised his hands.

The two of them stood there, frozen in the middle of the street for a few moments.

Then the devil turned and ran away as quickly as he could.

---

"And that’s how I ended up here!" Riyalkin toasted his dinner companion. "Now, after years of obscurity, a legendary
hero!"

"Legendarily vain," his dinner guest teased with a smile.

"Simply playing my part, darling. People expect a certain amount of vanity in a troubadour, don’t they?"

She laughed. "Riyalkin the Red Pen is every bit as advertised."

"Thank you. And besides, accusations of vanity are a bit rich coming from my leading lady."

"Not all actors are vain." She took offense beautifully. "Just the good ones." She sipped her drink.

"Well then, you must be very vain indeed," the devil said. "Anyway, does that answer your question?"

"Mostly. Do they speak Caelian in hell?"

"What a good question. Unless it’s very old, the ritual usually grants knowledge of the summoner’s language. I gather in
the bad old days, we used to just show up in a cloud of brimstone and gabble at people. I’m sure it was impressive, but
what did it achieve? Not very professional, I can tell you that."

"No cloud of brimstone now?" she teased.

He waggled his eyebrows. "Style counts for something."

"But wait, that was..." She did some quick mental math. "Fifteen years ago?"

"Well, I was an accountant here in Capital for several years in between."

"An accountant!"

Riyalkin shrugged. "It’s what I did before. I’m moderately good at it."

"And how does one go from being an alien accountant to a famous troubadour?"

"Well..." Riyalkin seemed uncomfortable suddenly. "It’s just that... the thing is, accountancy in the Seven Cities is
just so much more interesting than it is here. Plotting and scheming, always on the lookout for an assassin, people
constantly trying to claw their way up the ladder, usually over your dead body. And I guess I just... missed the
excitement."

"The excitement of being an accountant."

"The excitement of being an accountant in Hell," Riyalkin said. "In any event, enough about me and the thrill of
double-entry bookkeeping. Perhaps you can enlighten me. Why is it, in spite of my impeccable taste and the outrageous
sums I spend looking good, I always feel underdressed in your presence? Do you employ sorcery? Or is it that any outfit
is improved by your unearthly beauty?"

She blushed in spite of herself and raised her own glass in a toast.

"You silver-tongued devil."

### DEVIL TRAITS

Devil heroes have access to the following traits.

#### SIGNATURE TRAIT: SILVER TONGUE

You can twist how your words are perceived to get a better read on people. You gain an edge when attempting to discover
an NPC’s motivations and pitfalls during negotiations (see Negotiation).

#### PURCHASED DEVIL TRAITS

You have 3 ancestry points to spend on the following traits.

##### Barbed Tail (Costs 1 point)  
  
  Your pointy tail allows you to punctuate all your actions. Once per round, you can deal 1 extra damage on a melee
  attack or free strike.

##### Beast Legs (Costs 1 point)  

  Your powerful legs improve your speed. Your speed becomes 6.

##### Glowing Eyes (Costs 1 point)  

  Your eyes are a solid, vibrant color that flares to show your excitement or rage. Whenever you take damage from a
  creature, you can use a triggered action to curse that creature for daring to do you harm. The creature takes (SURGE)
  psychic damage.

##### Hellsight (Costs 1 point)  
  
  Your eyes let you see through the dark, fog, and other types of concealment. You don’t take a bane on attacks against
  concealed, unhidden creatures.

##### Otherworldly Horns (Costs 2 points)  
  
  Your cherished horns are larger than the average devil and a hardened representation of your force of will, allowing
  you to succeed on a roll of 5 or higher with saving throws.

##### Prehensile Tail (Costs 2 points)  
  
  Your prehensile tail allows you to challenge foes on all sides. You can’t be flanked.

##### Wings (Costs 2 points)  
  
  You possess wings powerful enough to take you airborne. As a maneuver, you can switch between walking and flying when
  you are touching the ground, or vice versa when you are within 1 square of the ground. While flying, your stability
  drops to 0 and you have damage weakness 5. While using your wings to fly, you can stay aloft for a number of rounds
  equal to your Might (minimum of 1 round) before you fall prone.

## DRAGON KNIGHT

"I thought the dragon knights would save us, but even they couldn’t stop Ajax. Now the roads aren’t safe. People are
taken from their homes without cause or warning, never to return. I don’t know what’s going to happen now, except
everyone’s afraid all the time.

"I think things are going to get a lot worse before they get better."

The Ritual of Dracogenesis that grants the power to create a generation of dragon knights—also known as draconians or
wyrmwights—is obscure and supremely difficult for even an experienced sorcerer to master. Small populations of
draconians in Khemhara, Higara, and Khorshir attest to this. Descendants of original generations created millennia ago
by powerful wizards, they have never been numerous. A typical clutch yields only a single egg. After only a few
generations, these draconians begin to show new adaptations like feathers or frilled ridges.

The largest extant population of draconians is the remnants of the Dragon Phalanx in Vasloria. Created by Good King
Omund’s wizard Vitae, the Dragon Phalanx once numbered several thousand of the king’s greatest knights, ensuring the
rule of law across the land.

Knighthood was a title carried by every member of that first generation of dragon knights. Within the Dragon Phalanx
were shadows, censors, tacticians, and elementalists. Members of virtually every heroic vocation could be found in one
of the eight dragonflights that made up the phalanx. For over thirty years, these heroes were symbols of justice,
protecting the weak from the strong, and standing between the common folk and those who sought power over others. Those
who grew up in that place and time could never have imagined any other way of life.

Then Ajax came.

### ON THE DRAGON KNIGHTS

The cloaked figure at the back of the inn stood up. As they did so, their hood slipped down, revealing their head and
face. A susurration rippled through the crowd. One man standing near the bar dropped his jaw, followed by his flagon of
mead.

A tall, broad draconian stepped into the light. He was old, his scales battle-scarred. He rested one clawed hand on the
pommel of a mace that hung from a loop on his belt, while the other carried his shield by a strap. His flat,
expressionless look was more terrifying than any threatening glower.

The three human bandits took a step back. One of the dwarves just sneered—then, sensing his human compatriot’s
reluctance, turned to look at them. "What’s this?" the lead dwarf growled.

"Don’t be cowards now!" the other dwarf said, a hint of joy in his voice. "Look what a prize we have caught!"

"We didn’t..." one bandit said, shaking. "We didn’t know..."

Looking at the dragon knight, the other bandit added quickly, "We didn’t know there was one of you here."

The draconian didn’t move. Didn’t give any indication he heard the man. Just stared unblinking at the lead dwarf.

"Think of the bounty," the dwarf hissed to the humans, but he kept his eye on the draconian. "We’ll all be rich."

"I don’t..." One of the bandits dropped her sword and held her hands up as she backed away from the group toward the
exit. "I don’t need it that bad," she said. Then she turned and ran out the door. Her human compatriots followed.

The two dwarves surveyed the tavern. The people were now all facing them. A few had stood up. They weren’t afraid
anymore.

"We’ll be back," the lead dwarf said, and the two of them backed out of the inn, sheathing their shortswords before they
turned and left.

As one, the people in the tavern turned to look with undisguised awe at the dragon knight. He noticed this, ducked his
head to avoid their gaze. "Show’s over," he growled, then he turned to go back to his seat in the rear.

"Thank you," the woman behind the bar said. "Thank you for..." She stopped when she saw the draconian was ignoring her.

A short, doughty, middle-aged man stood up, and two equally doughty women at the same table stood up with him. "Excuse
me, sir knight," the man said as the dragon knight walked past their table.

The knight moved on, ignoring them. The man reached out and grabbed the massive draconian’s arm. The knight wheeled on
the peasant, looming over him.

The man bowed his head and touched his forelock. The two women with him curtseyed and tried to avoid making eye contact.

"Begging your pardon, sir, but we been lookin’ for you."

The dragon knight sneered and bared a set of sharp teeth. "Look for someone else," he growled as he pulled his arm away.

The man scurried around to stand in front of the draconian, blocking his way. He took off his worn cap and held it over
his breast. "I’m sorry sir, but there ain’t no one else. And there’s this new tax, you see, from the new baron. And a
priest says he’s of Saint Ajax."

The knight bared his impressive teeth, ready to scare Jago and the other two away—when someone else spoke.

"You might want to hear 'em out, Vaant," said a voice from the table the three peasants had been sitting at.

The dragon knight turned sharply to look at the man who’d spoken. His back was to the draconian, but the voice gave him
away.

"John?"

The man turned to look up.

"Hi Vaant," he said, smiling. He rose from the table. He was middle-aged, fit. Black hair hung down to his shoulders. He
was armed with many weapons, looked like a captain of the guard. "Folks," he said, "this is Vaantikalisax, Knight of
King Omund in the Thunder Phalanx. He may be the last of the Storm Knights."

The man held out his hand. The dragon knight looked at it for a moment before reaching out slowly to grasp it. "What are
you doing out here?" Vaantikalisax asked.

"These people need help. I said I’d find it. Heard a rumor someone matching your description was holed up here having a
drinking contest with Mr. John Barleycorn."

The draconian sniffed, released John’s hand, and looked at the three peasants. "Why do you people need me? You’re in the
company of Sir John, Commander of the Fifth..."

"Just John," Sir John said, holding a hand up. "The new baron stripped me of my title. My lands."

"I didn’t know that." The draconian’s voice softened. "I’m sorry."

"I’ll be fine. But these people..." John said, gesturing to the three older peasants. Vaantikalisax waved him to
silence.

"Sure," he said. "But why me?"

"Thought maybe you’d like to get back in the game."

"The game."

"Yeah." Sir John smiled. "The hero game."

Vaantikalisax said nothing. The inn had mostly gone back to its business but the three peasants watched intently.
Eventually, the dragon knight spoke again, his voice low.

"I owe you a lot, John—but not everything."

"I’m not asking everything."

"No, that’s not how it starts. But I have this feeling that’s how it’ll end."

"What does your oath say? 'Even should the sun stop in the sky, even should the night—'"

"John," the dragon knight said, his voice suddenly sad. Exasperated. "You don’t want to quote my oath to me. You really
don’t. I liked serving with you. I have fond memories of that time—of you. Don’t spoil it." He looked at his friend, the
three peasants, then shook his head and turned to leave the inn.

"Vaant," Sir John said, following. "Sir Vaantikalisax, by your oath!"

The dragon knight stopped and spun around. Everyone in the inn was watching the show again. Act two.

"The people need leadership," John said as he looked at all the folk watching.

Vaantikalisax’s reptile eyes flashed in anger. "They had it! Thirty years, and what did it amount to?! I watched Ajax...
I watched him..." The dragon knight’s eyes flinched. His clawed hands tightened on his mace and shield. "I watched the
oath... fail."

"Vaant... Vaant, the Dragon Phalanx didn’t fail. You were betrayed. It was Mandrake! One of your own, don’t you get it?
You’re just as fallible as the rest of us. You were never 'incorruptible.' It’s just what we wanted to believe. You’re
just people—like the rest of us."

The dragon knight looked at the people around him, at the three peasants desperate for someone, anyone, to help them.
Then he looked back to his friend.

"Exactly," Vaantikalisax said. Then he turned and left the inn.

### DRAGON KNIGHT TRAITS

Dragon knight heroes have access to the following traits.

#### SIGNATURE TRAIT: WYRMPLATE

Your hardened scales grant you immunity equal to your level to one of the following damage types: acid, cold,
corruption, fire, lightning, or poison. You can change your damage immunity type when you finish a respite.

#### PURCHASED DRAGON KNIGHT TRAITS

You have 3 ancestry points to spend on the following traits.

##### Draconian Guard (Costs 1 point)  

  When you or a creature adjacent to you is attacked, you can use a triggered action to swing your wings around and
  guard against the blow, reducing any damage from the attack by an amount equal to your level.

##### Remember Your Oath (Costs 1 point)  

  As a maneuver, you can recite the following oath. If you do, you succeed on saving throws when you roll a 4 or higher
  until the start of your next turn:  
  *Even should the sun stop in the sky*  
  *Even should the night last a thousand years*  
  *I will stand forever*  
  *I shall not yield*  
  *Those who suffer and yearn for justice*  
  *I am your sword and shield*  
  *I will yield no ground*  
  *I will speak no lies*  
  *I will stand against all tyrants*  
  *Until the last villain dies*

##### Draconian Pride (Costs 2 points)  

  You can use the following ability:

###### DRACONIAN PRIDE

You let loose a mighty roar to shake your foes’ spirits.  

- **Keywords:** Area, Magic  
- **Type:** Action  
- **Distance:** 1 burst  
- **Target:** All enemies

**Power Roll + Might or Presence:**

- 11 or lower: 2 damage
- 12–16: 3 damage
- 17+: 4 damage; I [strong] frightened (save ends)

##### DRAGON WEAPON (COSTS 2 POINTS)

You can use the following ability:

###### DRAGON BREATH

You expel energy to damage your foes.  

- **Keywords:** Area, Magic  
- **Type:** Action  
- **Distance:** 3 cube within 1  
- **Target:** All enemies

**Power Roll + Might or Presence:**

- 11 or lower: 2 damage
- 12–16: 3 damage
- 17+: 4 damage


**Effect:** You choose the attack’s damage type from acid, cold, corruption, fire, lightning, or poison.

##### WINGS (COSTS 2 POINTS)

You possess wings powerful enough to take you airborne.  
As a maneuver, you can switch between walking and flying when you are touching the ground, or vice versa when you are
within 1 square of the ground. While flying, your stability drops to 0 and you have damage weakness 5. While using your
wings to fly, you can stay aloft for a number of rounds equal to your Might (minimum of 1 round) before you fall prone.

## DWARF

"Remember, we are dwarves. Our strength is the strength of the earth. The strength of the marble column that rises to
the heavens. The strength of the granite foundation that reaches deep into the ground. But what is the value of strength
if it is not used in service of justice?"  
—Zarok the Lawgiver, Hero, Dwarves 232

Possessed of a strength that belies their size, dwarves have flesh infused with stone—a silico-organic hybrid making
them physically denser than other humanoids. They enjoy a reputation in Orden as savvy engineers and technologists
thanks to the lore they inherited from their elder siblings, the long-extinct steel dwarves.

Dwarves are the children of the elder god Ord, and a common phrase among dwarves is “Ord made the world”—their way of
saying, “What will be, will be.” They take great pride in knowing that along with Aan, Eth, and Kul, their god created
the mundane world, and many dwarves leave their homes to see the world and seek glory in Ord’s name.

### ON DWARVES

There’s nothing a team of dwarves can’t do! Five dwarves alone can easily kill a dragon. Ten dragons!  
Why, Vorka the Fell-Handed alone slew five dragons at the Siege of Var Loska before succumbing to her wounds. One dwarf!
Think what a small, dedicated party of dwarves could do! There aren’t many of the great dragons left, alas, so we must…
I mean, dwarves must content themselves with fighting lesser evils. Necromancers, tyrants. Folks who cheat at dice.

Dwarves take the long view. Well, so do elves, but elves seem more interested in preserving things. Dwarves want to make
things! Improve the world! “The world is fine the way it is…” Shut up! No it’s not! The world is full of pain, misery,
injustice. We cannot make a perfect world, but we can strive to improve the one we’ve got!

Anyway. Humans make too much of this so-called rivalry between dwarves and elves. Yes, it was an elf army that slew the
last steel dwarves in the War Against Night, but that was tens of thousands of years ago. And anyway, those were the
shadow elves, long banished to the World Below. And none now live who remember those days.

The steel dwarves—the greatest of us—are dead now, and our cousins the fire dwarves left this world for Quintessence
long ago. There they built Alloy, the City of Brass, the City at the Center of the Timescape. A marvel! Not so large as
Capital, perhaps, but not so… fragrant either.

It is left to us, the stone dwarves, the Last Children of Ord, to work stone, create great marvels with it. Our greatest
days are not behind us! Who speaks thus!? Have we not been to the Hanging City of Kal Kalavar together? Will you ever
forget that place? I will not should I live to be a thousand, and neither will you. And it was finished in my lifetime.
Only three hundred years ago! It’s brand new!

Elven rivalry. Pagh! Did we not name the most precious metal in the earth “valiar” after their god Val? Val is a noble
god, a worthy patron of the elves. He seeks justice and glory in his own way, we deem. Were one to choose the path of
the conduit, you could pick worse gods than Val to serve.

It is the humans who make so much of rivalries between the ancestries. It was the humans who called us “dwarves.” We do
not know the significance of this word in their tongue, but we accept it. Their speech is crude, true, but they are a
young species after all. We must not judge them too harshly. “Elemental” would be a faithful translation of our word for
ourselves into the Caelian tongue.

Ah, the record of dwarven achievement is long… too long to tell in so short a space. And it is not seemly to compare
ourselves so. This entry spends many words on elves and…

*This is what happens when you let a dwarven troubadour write the dwarf entry.*

...men as though we were competitors, but who says it? Why should it be thus? Was it a dwarf who slew Baalorak the
Griefbringer? No! It was the Crown of Nine Stars! That legendary company of heroes who counted three dwarves among their
number, but also elves and orcs and humans. Like the great cosmopolitan city of Alloy, we are stronger together.

Look you again at the Hanging City. Yes, your eyes well with tears from the magnificence of it, but see it clearly. Is
it a dwarven city? Everyone calls it thus, but do you know how many humans live there? Thousands. And orcs. And elves!
Of course! How else should it be?

Some say the greatest ages of the world are behind us, but this is not so. Not so. While there is yet will in the world,
there is greatness. You will see. The elves, the orcs. Humans and dwarves. All the speaking peoples have wonder in them
yet. Our greatest days are ahead. Did not Ord make the world?

None of us ask to come into this world, and apart from the Hakaan, none of us know how we will leave it. But remember,
you are a dwarf. You have it in you to work marvels. To change the world, be you a holy conduit of Valak-koth the
Peacebringer, one of the talented Mind Masters of the White Gem, a beastheart of the Darkdivers seeking through the
World Below for deep knowledge, or a master tactician of the Imperial War College in Capital. You will make a better
world.

You are young yet, but already those who work evil deeds should fear you. You are a dwarf. You have a great destiny
ahead.

### DWARF TRAITS

Dwarf heroes have access to the following traits.

#### SIGNATURE TRAIT: RUNIC CARVING

You can carve a magic rune onto your skin. The rune you carve determines the benefit you receive. You can change or
remove this rune with 10 minutes of work while not engaged in combat.

- **Detection:** Pick a specific type of creature, such as "goblins" or "humans" or an object, such as "magic swords"
  or "potions." Your rune glows softly when you are within 20 squares of a chosen creature or object, regardless of line
  of effect. You can change the type of creature as a maneuver.
- **Light:** Your skin sheds light for 10 squares. You can turn this on and off as a maneuver.
- **Voice:** As a maneuver, you can communicate telepathically with another willing creature you have met before whose
  name you name, who can speak and understand a language you know, and is within 1 mile of you. You and the creature can
  respond to one another as if having a normal conversation. You can change the person you communicate with by changing
  the rune.

#### PURCHASED DWARF TRAITS

You have 3 ancestry points to spend on the following traits.

##### Grounded (Costs 1 point)  

  Your heavy stone body and connection to the earth makes it difficult for others to move you. Your stability increases
  by 1.

##### Stand Tough (Costs 1 point)  

  Your body is made to withstand the blows of your enemies. Your Might counts as 1 higher for resisting potencies.

##### Stone Singer (Costs 1 point)  

  You have a magic connection to the earth. You can spend 1 uninterrupted hour singing and reshape any unworked, mundane
  stone within 3 squares of you. You can’t destroy this stone, but you can move each square of it anywhere within 3
  squares of you, piling it off to one side to dig a hole or building it all up to create a wall.

##### Great Fortitude (Costs 2 points)  

  Your hearty constitution prevents you from losing strength. You can’t be weakened.

##### Spark Off Your Skin (Costs 2 points)  

  Your stone skin affords you potent protection. Your Stamina increases by 6 at 1st level, then increases by an
  additional 3 each time you gain a new level.

## ELF, WODE

*See you the wood so dark and deep,  
Where runs the fox and hare?  
You know now why your mother weeps.  
Your father’s bones lie there.  
See you the river clear and sweet  
So beautiful and fair?  
Follow it in and you may meet  
The Queen of Dark and Air*

Children of the sylvan celestials and masters of the elf-haunted forests called wodes, wode elves see all forests as
their domain by birthright. They know and enjoy their reputation among humans for snatching children who wander too far
into the woods. Humans should fear the trees.

The wode elves’ natural ability to mask their presence, called glamor, complements their guerrilla style of fighting,
letting them strike quickly from cover and then meld back into the underbrush. These traits also make the relatively few
wode elves who dwell in cities naturally adept at urban warfare.

### ON WODE ELVES

"I’m scared," Wenna said. "We should go back." The forest felt as if it was closing in on them.

"We’re not going back," Jeremy said. Normally, such a statement would be the end of the discussion, but they were alone
and far from home.

"What if we’re going in circles?"

"Then we keep going in circles!" Dade said from somewhere up ahead. "Until we find the elves."

"The elves have found you!" a clear, bright voice called out. The children froze. They scanned the wood, but there were
no signs of the speaker.

Then, only a few feet from them, a half-dozen figures melded out of the background, as if the trees and bushes and grass
had been painted on them to perfectly match the wode. They wore light armor covered in leaves, moss, and vines, and they
bristled with weapons.

"Black gods!" Meliora gasped. Credan frowned, and Wenna hushed her for swearing. Dade was ushered back toward them by
two more wode elves, his bow in hand. The children huddled together, Credan’s hand on the symbol of Saint Gryffyn around
his neck, and Jeremy’s hand on the hilt of his sword.

The elves were tall, taller than an adult human, but seemed always to crouch as soon as they stopped moving. Their eyes
were unsettling, widely spaced, and huge. But it was their ears, long and tall and twisting and set with great scoops to
catch all sound, that marked them as elves of the wode.

"Admittedly, though, most terrans regret the experience." The voice they had heard called out again—from above. The
children looked up and now saw a wode elf with long, furry, twisting ears and nut-brown skin smiling down at them. They
were wearing a brightly colored outfit. The children watched the elf leap lightly from branch to lower branch until
finally landing with a flourish on the forest floor before them.

"Consort!" An elf before them spoke in Yllyric as he stood from his crouch and bowed. "We have been tracking these since
they entered the wode."

Meliora, who understood the words, whispered to the others. "They called that one 'consort!'"

Llyander smiled, looking from Meliora to the elf who had just addressed them with a *See? I told you!* look on their
face.

The tall, swashbuckling elf bowed to the children. "I am Llyander, the Lightning Strike, Consort to Queen Imyrr." They
indicated the elf who had spoken. "This is my cousin, Rhythylthin."

"How did you know we were here?" Jeremy asked. Dade stood just behind him, with an arrow now nocked.

The one called Rhythylthin reached out while Dade was turned, looking at the queen’s consort, and deftly plucked the
arrow from the young man’s bow.

"Nothing happens within the wode without our knowledge," the elf said. Dade spun on him and nocked another arrow. "And
approval," Rhythylthin added, closing his hand and snapping the arrow in it.

"You come bearing a gift for our queen—the Codex Dryadalis." Llyander nodded at the heavy scroll Meliora carried. "My
cousin Rhythylthin here was sent to capture you and escort you to the Orchid Court. But I am the queen’s consort, and
have my own thoughts on the matter." The elf smiled at the children. "But have no fear," they said. Their Vaslorian was
perfect, their voice a song. "You are safe … now." The pause before "now" spoke volumes.

"Are you a … a … boy or a girl?" Wenna asked.

Llyander smiled gaily. "I am a song! I contain melodies and harmonies alike," they said. Wenna smiled. Rhythylthin
rolled his eyes. Llyander noticed this and winked at him. "Fashions change. My cousin here wears the new trends." They
gestured at the other wode elf’s garb and masculine appearance. "Me? I’m old fashioned." They gestured to their own
outfit and appearance. "Grace never goes out of style."

Llyander turned to Rhythylthin and the rest of the wode elf band. "Their gift goes to Lord Tear, methinks. I will escort
them." Then, suddenly imperious, they added, "You may go."

In spite of his previous skepticism toward the queen’s consort, Rhythylthin straightened and bowed. As one, the elves
turned and flowed into the wode. In only a few steps, they melded into the trees and undergrowth.

"How did they do that?" Meliora demanded, spinning to confront their benefactor.

"Hmm? Do what?" Llyander asked, looking after the elves, wondering what Meliora meant.

"Just … disappear like that!"

Llyander looked at the other children with a combination of wonder and annoyance. "Do terran children not play hiding
games?"

"Well …" Jeremy looked at Dade, who was no help. "We do, but …"

Llyander made a theatrical, dismissive gesture with one arm. "Well, it is the same thing, then. But for our people, it
is a game we practice all our lives! We would be poor protectors of the wode if we could not conceal ourselves within
it."

"But that was …" Meliora was frustrated at the elf’s seeming evasion. "That was magic!"

"You say? Well," Llyander mused, "terrans are a part and apart, it is said. It is your blessing and your curse methinks.
Perhaps someday you can explain it to me!" The elf’s eyes twinkled at Meliora’s frustration.

Llyander turned and marched off. "Come!" they called. The children ran to catch up.

"Where are we going?" Wenna asked.

"I enjoy the favor of Lord Tear," Llyander said. "We are old friends. With me as your guide, he will treat you
well—likely bestow favor upon you! You should be in anticipation of great treasure." They smiled.

The elf stopped suddenly and spun toward them, serious but kindly. They pointed to each of the children in turn. "I will
instruct you on the proper etiquette, but remember this: Lord Tear will test us. Some tests for you and some for me. The
high elves and the wode elves are but distant cousins. You will hear much that is polite, much that is flattering, but
it is all another kind of glamor. It hides deep tensions, recently exacerbated by the treaty with Ajax."

The children nodded. The elf, satisfied, marched off and they followed.

Jeremy turned to Dade. "I feel like we’re in a dream," he whispered.
"You are!" their escort called out. "The wode is a dream! With a little luck, one you may soon wake safely from."

### WODE ELF TRAITS

Wode elf heroes have access to the following traits.

#### SIGNATURE TRAIT: WODE ELF GLAMOR

You can magically alter your appearance to better blend in with your surroundings. You gain an edge on Agility tests
made to hide and sneak, and tests made to find you while you are hidden take a bane.

#### PURCHASED WODE ELF TRAITS

You have 3 ancestry points to spend on the following traits.

##### Forest Feet (Costs 1 point)  

  You can shift into difficult terrain.

##### Perfect Memory (Costs 1 point)  

  Accessing memories is as easy as living in the present for you. You have an edge on all tests made to recall lore.

##### Swift (Costs 1 point)  

  Your speed is 6.

##### Otherworldly Grace (Costs 2 points)

  Your elven body and mind can’t be contained for long. You succeed on saving throws when you get a 5 or higher.

##### Vine Cage (Costs 2 points)  

  You have the following ability:

###### VINE CAGE

Thorny vines erupt into existence and attempt to bind your foe.  

- **Keywords:** Attack, Magic, Ranged  
- **Type:** Action  
- **Distance:** Ranged 10  
- **Target:** 1 creature

**Power Roll + Might or Agility:**

- 11 or lower: 1 damage; A [weak] slowed (save ends)
- 12–16: 2 damage; A [average] slowed (save ends)
- 17+: 3 damage; A [strong] restrained (save ends)

## ELF, HIGH

"Ajax has a kind of crude style, perhaps, but no taste. I have no objection to a villain, you understand. The world is a
tale, but a tale is only as good as its villain. And Ajax is so … artless. We deserve a better villain."

Children of the solar celestials created to tend their libraries and attend to the true elves as heralds, the high elves
remember a better age, before the coming of humans and war. A time when the celestials were still in the world, and all
that mattered was art and beauty.

In the millennia since their creators retired to Arcadia, the high elves built a civilization for themselves, primarily
living in and among the fallen celestial sky cities. With no creators left to please, the elves continue as they did
before—collecting lore and knowledge, worshiping art, and turning more inward and distrusting of outsiders with each
generation.

### ON HIGH ELVES

"They’re so beautiful," Wenna said. "It’s hard to imagine we’re in danger."

"It’s not that hard," Dade said darkly.

The five children stood alone in the center of a large circular courtyard open to the sky, their wode elf escort
Llyander at their side. Lord Tear, King of the High Elves, sat on a marble throne, holding the scroll of the Codex
Dryadalis in his lap. He had not spoken since Llyander made their speech and handed the codex over. The members of the
court, nobles and courtiers and learned sages, gathered to watch. Implacable warriors in golden plate with fine filigree
etched into the metal stood guard around the perimeter. They bristled with weapons.

"They seem like …" Meliora said, searching for the words.

"Like the lords of all the world," Wenna said with awe and wonder.

"And we are their prisoners," Jeremy said, looking at his brother Dade and Credan beside him.

"You’re not prisoners," Llyander said quietly. "You are guests. You’re safer here than you would be even in your own
homes."

"Yes," Jeremy said, looking at the nearest guards with their longspears and swords. "We feel very safe."

"Who are you kidding?" Dade said. "Everyone knows how much elves hate humans."

At this, Lord Tear exchanged a look with Llyander, consort to Queen Imyrr. It was a knowing look, full of sadness and
melancholy. Then he broke his silence.

"Show me an elf who hates humans," he said, his voice deep and sonorous, "and I will show you an elf who loved a human
and watched them grow old and die." He looked at the children for the first time and smiled a melancholy smile. "Love is
like sunlight for us, you see. We love completely but rarely. The loss of it means an eternity of grief for us."

The king tapped the scroll against his lap, seeming to have reached a decision.

"Well done, consort. Young humans, your escort here seeks to shame me. For they know well they could have taken this
prize to their queen and earned her favor. Instead, Llyander brought it to me in the hopes that by doing so, they
deliver me the power necessary to throw off the yoke of Ajax’s rule. Long has Llyander resented the decision I made and
sought to change it …"—he looked at Llyander—"… by changing my mind."

Llyander nodded deferentially, silently congratulating the king on his insight.

"Alas, your escort’s efforts are for naught." Then the king’s face became softer. He held up the heavy scroll. "But this
is not nothing," he said. "We made a treaty with Ajax to deliver unto him any artifacts our search teams discover from
the ruins of this city. He benefits from this bargain more than we. But this, methinks, will stay with us. It was
written by my mother in the youth of the world, and there are some things which must be denied the Iron Saint, even
should they violate the treaty."

Llyander turned to the children and smiled brilliantly, eyebrows waggling in a show of glee. Wenna and Credan couldn’t
help but smile. "Well, you see children?" Llyander said. "We only have more to do, not everything to do."

The king stood up, and a herald beside the throne announced, "Gather ye, and attend! The Lord of Fallen Irranys, Morning
Dew On a Single Leaf Like a Tear from the Sun, speaks. And know his word is law!"

Lord Tear glided down the steps until he was standing, as tall as Llyander, before the children. His face was noble and
beautiful. Wisps of silver-like strands of smoke spread across his golden skin. He seemed at once eternal and youthful.

"You have heard many things about my people, but this above all you should know. We do not value lore for lore’s sake,
but beauty first and above all other things. And the truth, to us, is a kind of beauty. Thus do we find knowledge
beautiful.

"You have returned something not only of enormous worldpower, but at the same time, a work of art my mother labored over
for many of your centuries. It is something of a miracle that it is returned to me now. I will not forget this. You have
made an ally of the lord of the high elves. And though you lead brief lives, while you live, you shall have the favor of
the elves." He turned to hand the scroll over to a sage and confer with his herald.

"He seems wise," Credan said.

"And smart," Meliora said.

"I’m surprised how kind he is," Jeremy said. "He seems a good king."

Llyander chuckled. Wenna noticed. She didn’t say anything at first, but eventually she couldn’t resist. "What?"

Llyander raised an eyebrow, then walked in front of the children so that as the wode elf spoke, their back was to the
king.

"Do you remember when my cousin’s soldiers hid in the wode?" they said, their voice low. "How astonished you were?"

Wenna and Meliora nodded. Llyander nodded to the guards and guests. "This is their glamor. Whatever you find pleasant
and attractive in another? That is what you see in them. If you value good humor, they are jesters. If you value beauty,
they are breathtaking. If you find intelligence attractive, they are sages. It is not just an effect of appearance,
though it is also that. It is one of demeanor."

"But how do they do …"

Llyander put a finger to their lips, silencing young Meliora. "It is not a thing they do. It is an effect in your mind."

"You mean they don’t even know they’re doing it?" Meliora asked.

"Then what do they really look like?" Wenna asked.

Llyander shrugged. "What does anyone really look like?"

And while the other children chalked this up to their escort’s normally abstruse mode of communication, Meliora caught a
glimpse of understanding somewhere in her mind.

The king turned back to them. "Should any of you seek hidden lore or deep wisdom, please allow me to serve you first.
But you, young woman, the human child who learned our language, I name thee elf friend. And my naming carries power. You
will find the learning of our lore will come more quickly to you, and all those who still revere the elves will give you
safe passage in their lands."

Llyander put their hands on their hips and regarded the children. "Not bad for your second quest. What shall you do for
an encore?"

### HIGH ELF TRAITS

High elf heroes have access to the following traits.

#### SIGNATURE TRAIT: HIGH ELF GLAMOR

A magic glamor makes others perceive you as interesting and engaging, granting you an edge on Presence tests using the
Flirt or Persuade skills. This glamor makes you look and sound slightly different to each creature you meet, since what
is engaging to one might be different for another. However, you never appear to be anyone other than yourself.

#### PURCHASED HIGH ELF TRAITS

You have 3 ancestry points to spend on the following traits.

##### Graceful Retreat (Costs 1 point) 

  When you take the Disengage maneuver, you can shift 1 additional square as part of the maneuver.

##### High Senses (Costs 1 point)  

  You have senses that are keen and perceptive. You have an edge on Intuition tests that use the Awareness skill.

##### Perfect Memory (Costs 1 point)  

  Accessing memories is as easy as living in the present for you. You have an edge on all tests made to recall lore.

##### Otherworldly Grace (Costs 2 points)  

  Your elven body and mind can’t be contained for long. You succeed on saving throws when you get a 5 or higher.

##### Unstoppable Mind (Costs 2 points)  

  Your mind allows you to maintain your focus in any situation. You can’t be dazed.

## HAKAAN

Defending the Society’s flank, the Pillar stood alone against the Bloodstone Legion. The Arrow was awestruck and afraid.
She was a different person in a fight.

"COME FORTH, SONS OF ORD!" the hakaan metamorph bellowed as Ajax’s dwarven legion advanced. "AND MEET A BETTER WOMAN
THAN THEE!!"

"You … you know when you’re going to die?"

The Pillar, dressed in her civilian clothing—a simple pleated dress cinched at the waist that left her bare arms free to
work—dipped her hand in the pail of water. It immediately sprang to life, the water sizzled and danced as her fingers
cooled. She pulled her hand out, shook off the water, and went back to sculpting the granite.

The hard, tough stone melded like clay under her fingers. Whatever she was doing, it generated enormous heat in her
fingertips, hence the pails of water beside her. The Arrow couldn’t tell if this was her talent manifest, or something
her people could do, or neither. As he watched, he realized he recognized the bust. It was the girl they rescued during
the Society’s recent battle with the Academy. (See last ish. -MC.)

"Not exactly," the Pillar said as she concentrated on her art. "Not when. More sort of …" She looked away from her
sculpture and looked out the window, thinking. "How. Why. I am told there is a sense of …" She looked at the young man,
a teenager, only recently recruited to the Society. "Anticipation. Eagerness when the time is nigh. So," she took in a
deep breath, which was an impressive sight to see in a 9-foot-tall woman, and let it out, smiling at the young man. "Not
anytime soon." Her smile was like a sunrise.

Though he had lived with fear most of his young life, mortality was not something that plagued the Arrow’s mind. He had
a hard time grasping it. "That must be … awful."

"Oh no," she went back to her work. "No it’s … I do not know how to say it in Caelian. It is a blessing. I have seen
people die for no reason. Be taken from their loved ones without warning, without … without purpose. There are unjust
deaths. They destroy families. Communities.

"But the doomsight only comes in time of great need. People forget Holkatya is also the goddess of luck, and those who
beat luck—under … underdogs, as you say. She gave more than she stole, I sometimes think.

"I do not know how long I have. No one does, but I know my death will have meaning. I know it, do you understand? I know
it like I know my own name. Often I feel …" Her great hands clenched and unclenched, as though she were trying to grasp
something just out of reach. "I yearn for it. I want it to happen. What greater end can there be than fulfilling one’s
destiny?" She looked at the mostly-finished sculpture. "It gives everything I do a sense of purpose." She went back to
work.

"My people are a serene and peaceful lot. We do not seek glory like the folk of Vanigar. But, in battle sometimes,
knowing I am getting closer to my wyrd, my destiny, I think I know how they feel. Something comes over me, some enormous
sense of … of rightness." She smiled again at the young man. "It scares my friends sometimes, I know."

The Arrow had seen it, and enthusiastically agreed.

"You’re not from the Barrow Hills," he said.

The Pillar shook her head, "No, I do not wot of your hills. I am from the hills north of the Blue Cloud Mountains in far
Vanigar." She turned and looked down at the Arrow with some pride. "My people are descended from the original Haka’an
tribe." She went back to work. "Though I am sure the Barrow Men, as you call them, are a fine people. We’re all related,
you see."

"Is that why you joined the Society?"

"Oh yes," the Pillar said. "I had only left home a fortnight previous when Memory came to Vanigar to recruit me. I had a
sense my wyrd lay in some distant land, but I did not know the world was so big."

"Did she look like herself?" the Arrow asked, smiling. Enjoying a moment of shared experience with the giant woman.

The Pillar chuckled, and the Arrow’s chest vibrated with the force of it. "No, she looked like an agéd wise woman of
Vanigar. I think only in fabled Alloy could the Memory of a Sunset at Dawn walk the streets without ‘scaring the
horses,’ as they say."

"Alloy?"

The Pillar looked at the Arrow out of the corner of her eye. "You’ll see," she said with some glee.

"You were following your vision, you said."

"Yes, my wyrd as the Vanigair call it."

"What did you see?"

"Oh," she smiled and blushed, "it is not meet to say."

"It’s bad luck?"

"Mmmm … you would say maybe. I think … rude is closer, but the doomsight is rarely clear in any event. It is full of
symbolism and metaphor. My father is the shaa'er of our tribe. The skald as the Vanigair call it. He thought the
symbolism was a kind of protection. So that I might know with certainty the meaning, but be unable to clearly convey it
to others." She nodded. "I think he is right."

"Is it like a dream or a nightmare?" The Arrow wasn’t sure how much it was okay to ask.

"No, it was not a dream, it was a thing that happened." She turned to face the Arrow and leaned her massive arms on her
legs. "I know not how it is for other doomseekers, but this is how it was for me. I was collecting flecks of jasper, a …
a mineral we add to our food. I was picking flakes of rock up off the ground when I saw a bee that could not fly and a
horde of ants all around, one with wings. In that moment, that was all that I could see. It was like the rest of the
world fell away, and the bee and the ants filled my sight. Though the bee was surrounded and the ants seemed to go on
forever, I could see the ants were afraid. There were dozens of dead ants on the ground."

"What did you do?"

"Mm?" The Pillar was lost for a moment, remembering the moment.

"What happened next?"

The Pillar shrugged, giant muscles in her shoulders rippling. "That was the end of my vision. At that moment, I knew I
had to leave home."

"Wow."

"Indeed. Its meaning is clear to me. I stand alone against the endless horde. In my heart, they are Ajax’s war dogs. I
think I know this, but …" She shrugged again.

"But how come you’re alone? Where am I? Where’s the Society?"

"Who knows?" she smiled. "When the vision comes upon you, it is all you can see. Maybe it is like a painting, and I am
the painter. And if only I could turn my head a little ways to the left or right, I would see my friends there, fighting
with me. I like to think mine is a great sacrifice, made so my friends can escape some overwhelming evil. It is a common
theme among the fated I am told."

"What about the bee? What happened to the bee?"

"Oh, feeling sorry for it, I placed my finger gently on the ground, and you must see," she held up her pinky, "even my
little finger is like a mighty wall for the bee. I sought only to protect it from the ants, but it quickly scrambled
onto my finger, and after I stood up, it cleaned itself and flew away."

"It could fly!" the Arrow said, suddenly full of youthful exuberance. "It could fly the entire time! It was just
waiting … for someone else to come along."

The Arrow stared, wide-eyed at the Pillar. Even before the young man spoke, the hakaan talent’s eyes widened in
realization. "My vision …" she said.

"Wasn’t over!" the Arrow said, his joy impossible to hide.

### HAKAAN TRAITS

Hakaan heroes have access to the following traits.

#### Signature Trait: Big!

Your size is 1L.

#### Purchased Hakaan Traits

You have 3 ancestry points to spend on the following traits:

##### All is a Feather (Costs 1 Point)

You are exceptionally strong and have an edge made on tests that use the Lift skill.

##### Forceful (Costs 1 Point)

When you force move a creature or object, you can increase the distance moved by 1.

##### Stand Tough (Costs 1 Point)

Your body is made to withstand the blows of your enemies. Your Might score counts as1 higher for resisting potencies.

##### Great Fortitude (Costs 2 Points)

Your hearty constitution prevents you from losing strength. You can’t be weakened.
  
##### Doomsight (Costs 2 Points) 

Working with your Director, you can predetermine an encounter in which you will die.

  When that encounter begins, you become doomed. While doomed, you lose the Undaunted benefit from this ancestry, you
  automatically get tier 3 results on tests and resistance rolls, and you don’t die no matter how low your Stamina
  falls. You then die immediately at the end of the encounter.

  If you don’t predetermine your death encounter, you can choose to become doomed while you are dying with the
  Director’s approval (no action required). Doing so should be reserved for encounters in which you are dying as a
  result of suitable heroism, such as making a last stand against a boss or saving civilians, or when the consequences
  of your actions have finally caught up to you—not because you’re playing a one-shot and have nothing to lose, Hacaarl.

  Additionally, when your Stamina equals the negative of your winded value and you are not doomed, you turn to rubble
  instead of experiencing death. You are unaware of your surroundings in this state. After 12 hours, you regain Stamina
  equal to your Recovery value.

## HUMAN

"Humans," the dwarf said with a combination of exasperation and awe. "Their only virtue seems to be believing in
impossible things."

"Humans belong to the world in a way the other speaking peoples do not. You can sense the presence of magic—that … oily
smell in the air, as I’ve heard it described. And the presence of deathless causes the hairs on the back of your neck to
stand up. Or why do you think graveyards affect you so? Whatever magic is, its grip on you is light. Whatever drives the
deathless, your nature rebels against it.

"No one knows why this should be. We elves have no such senses. Nor do the elementals or the kanin … the dwarves and the
orcs as you say. What is it that sets humans apart? I am a historian, not a physician. I cannot say. Perhaps some of you
will one day find out and teach us all the reason."

### ON HUMANS

So, we arrive here at the end of your first semester of Human Culture. I hope to see you next year in the Caelian Empire
course, and though it may be hard to believe now, I often see former students’ names in our textbooks years later.
Perhaps that will be some of you.

I will now answer the one question I am asked most often, and which I save answering until the last day of class. What
do I think of humans?

I am a high elf, as you deem it in your tongue. A child of the solar celestials. And I have taught this class, mostly to
young humans, since the Caelian emperors founded this city. I was asked to join the faculty by the first chancellor. I
have seen generations of your people come through this classroom, and that alone would well qualify me to answer this
question.

What do I think of humans? Well, I will tell you.

I was here, teaching this class during the fire of Enlightenment 373. The fire leveled this city. Can you imagine that?
Can you imagine the heat, the death, destruction that such a thing causes?

Six months after the Great Fire, your ancestors had rebuilt … everything. I have seen many miracles in my life.
Witnessing that feat might be chief among them.

Liches are almost always humans. Did you know that? I think I know why. Your lives are so short—almost as soon as you’re
born, you’re thinking about dying, and you refuse to yield.

That refusal to yield to death … to death … is what drives you, I think. Drives you to leave the world better than you
found it. Causes ruined people to rebuild great cities.

We studied human history in this room. Did you feel that those great ancestors of yours were perhaps made of finer stuff
than you? Do not think thus. I knew them, and I know you, and your future is greater. I sometimes think each human
generation greater than the last—more courageous, more generous. Quicker to forgive.

Today, Ajax’s name is on everyone’s tongue, but I have seen many great evils arise in the world. I was teaching in this
classroom when the Pharaoh Khorsekef, desperate, his power failing, opened the Great Tet and drank of the time stored
there, becoming the Ultralich. He was defeated, and now rules the Necropolitan Ruin in the Abyssal Waste. I was alive,
though not yet a professor, when Cthrion Uroniziir tried to reduce the timescape into one singular universe, wiping out
reality as we know it. She was defeated, and we see her cage every day.3

Each of these great evils was defeated by a coalition. The armies and heroes of many speaking peoples. And all of
them—all of them—were led … by humans. That’s a fact. That’s history. You can look it up.

Is there some rare trait that makes you uniquely qualified to lead disparate peoples, bring them together to achieve
great things? I think … there must be.

Those great humans, your ancestors, did not focus on differences. They did not weigh different people and grade them
based on arbitrary traits deemed virtues and flaws. That is what Ajax does. No, those humans focused on the future. On
making a better world … for all of us. A world many of them knew they would not live to see. That is a sacrifice … I can
scarcely imagine.

The people who stand against Ajax and tyrants like him will be just like you—normal people. Priests and scholars and
merchants and farmers. Maybe even teachers. Stopping Ajax will require you to become something else. You must become
heroes. Conduits of saints, warmasters of great armies. Censors and shadows. That may seem unlikely now, but the future
has a way of surprising us.

Some of your names, I will see written in future textbooks. But some of your names, I will see written in the stars.

### HUMAN TRAITS

Human heroes have access to the following traits.

#### Signature Trait: Detect the Supernatural

As a maneuver, you open your awareness to detect supernatural creatures and phenomena. Until the end of your next turn,
you know the location of any supernatural object, Undead, Construct, or creature from another plane of existence within
5 squares of you, even if you don’t have line of effect to them. You know if you’re detecting an item or a creature, and
you know if a creature is Undead, a Construct, or from another plane of existence.

#### Purchased Human Traits

You have 3 ancestry points to spend on the following traits:

##### Can’t Take Hold (Costs 1 Point)

Your connection to the natural world allows you to resist supernatural effects.

  You ignore difficult terrain (but not other effects) created by magic and psionic abilities. Additionally, when you
  are force moved by a magic or psionic ability, you reduce the forced movement by 1.

##### Perseverance (Costs 1 Point)

Giving up is for other people. You have an edge on tests that use the Endurance  skill.

##### Resist the Supernatural (Costs 1 Point)

Your connection to the natural world protects you from supernatural  forces. When you take damage from a Magic or Psionic ability or effect, you can use your triggered action to gain an advantage against the damage.

##### Determination (Costs 2 Points)

Your anatomical tolerance for pain allows you to push through difficult  situations. If you are frightened, slowed, or weakened, you can use a maneuver to immediately end the condition.

##### Staying Power (Costs 2 Points)

Your human anatomy allows you to fight, run, and stay awake longer than others.  Increase your number of Recoveries by 2.

## MEMONEK

"This world of yours. Ships of wood and swords of steel. It’s so … primitive. Like a fairy tale."

"Where do you come from, lady, that our world seems a fable? You have no ships and swords?"

"We have them." Lady Urusistra cast a hand across the sky. "You see those stars? That is my home—the timescape. Our
ships are great star freighters that ply the space lanes. And among those stars, light hits as hard as steel."

The native denizens of Axiom, the Plane of Uttermost Law, memonek dwell in a land with lakes and trees and birds and
flowers. But on this alien world, the lakes are seas of mercury, the birds glitter with wings of glass stretched
gossamer thin, and the flowers’ petals are iridescent metal as flexible and fragile as any earthly rose.

The minds of memonek are highly ordered. Their reason is their great pride. But when descending to the lower planes,
including a manifold like Orden where law and chaos mix, a sickness comes over them—an uncontrollable sensation called
emotion.

Draw Steel © 2024 MCDM Productions, LLC

### ON MEMONEK

“You want to tell me what just happened?” Sir John asked.

Count Revile avoided his gaze, then turned and stamped away across the bloody battlefield.

“I’m fine!” Revile shouted, all evidence to the contrary.

“I know what I saw,” John said as he followed his friend. “You went into a bloodlust. And it’s not the first time.
Whether you like it or not, whether I like it or not, I’m in charge of this mission. Either you tell me what’s going on,
or I have no choice. I have to conclude you’re a danger to the team and cut you loose.”

Revile stopped and turned to look at the rest of the party, recovering from their wounds. The memonek’s white porcelain
chest heaved as he tried to calm himself. His ceramic skin looked as strong as plate, but John knew it was brittle,
fragile.

Count Revile took a deep breath. “We call it velloparatha,” he said. “In your tongue it would be … world-sick … or
world-sickness? It is a thing that happens … to my people … when they come to your world. It is an illness of … of
feeling. Emotion.”

“Are you going mad?” John asked in a whisper.

The memonek smiled ruefully. “It feels that way sometimes. I spent an hour this morning staring at an insect that landed
on my finger—a grasshopper, the polder called it. I thought I had never seen a thing so perfect and beautiful. That was
awe. As powerful as I have ever felt. In the battle today, anger—just as powerful.

“I thought I could resist it. When I arrived here and felt no different, I thought perhaps world-sickness was a legend.
But it is a slow process, this illness, these insidious emotions.”

“No emotions where you’re from?”

Count Revile shook his head. “Not like this. We are creatures of reason, we of Axiom. It is our art, our pride—our
religion sometimes, methinks. We have emotions. Joy, sadness, wonder, grief. Love. But they are… a fashion. They do not
happen to us. They are something we indulge in, out of propriety. Here… everything is order and chaos mixed—even in me.
In me.” Revile placed his hand on his chest.

“In the battle today,” he said. “That anger was not directed at Ajax’s War Dogs. It was directed at myself.”

“At yourself? Why? What did you—”

“John,” the memonek said, and now it was his turn to whisper. “I was afraid. Afraid of … of being wounded, of failing
you, failing my friends … of dying. And out of that fear came … enormous anger—at myself. Anger that I was so weak, so …
useless. Anger so … strong, so powerful … I forgot who I was.”

John chuckled. “That’s just …” He smiled broadly. “That’s normal, man. That’s just normal. We all feel that way.”

“What? No, you don’t understand—”

“Oh, I don’t understand? Okay, let me guess—it felt like you were gonna piss yourself.”

“Yes!”

“Yeah, happens to all of us.”

“Even you?!”

Sir John shrugged. “Are you kidding? Sure. But it doesn’t help. You still got a job to do. In fact, I’d say that is the
job. Anyone can learn the blade.” He placed his hand on the pommel of his sword. “Nothing special about that. It’s
learning to deal with the fear. That’s the job—what separates the professionals from the amateurs.”

Count Revile said nothing, just thinking.

“Feeling better?”

Revile nodded. “I always recover afterward, but these outbursts come unbidden, like thunder from a clear sky.”

“Hmm. Yeah. Well, that explains what happened when you met Embers.”

Count Revile did not like being reminded of that. He looked to the sky and shook his head. “I made a fool of myself.”

“Don’t be so hard on yourself. If you’re trying to seduce our void mage, you made a good start of it. She’s three
thousand years old, I’ve known her since I was fifteen. I don’t think I’ve ever seen her blush. Anyway, now that I know
what’s going on, now that I know you’re basically a giant teenager with overactive glands, I can relax a little.”

Sir John and Count Revile, both tacticians, stood together on the bloody battlefield, looking at each other.

“John, I fear this may get worse before it gets better.”

“So, just like everything else?” He clapped the memonek on the shoulder. “Don’t worry, we’ll get through it together.
I’ll let the others know. Once they understand, they’ll help too. They’ll probably just take the piss out of you.
That’ll help, you’ll love that.”

“You’re a good friend, John.”

“Heh. Is that you, or the world-sickness talking?”

“Me, I think. The world-sickness would have me say … you’re a bastardly son of a bitch. But you’re my bastardly son of a
bitch.” Count Revile smiled.

John laughed and put his arm around his friend as they headed back to the party. “Funny. The world-sickness sounds a lot
like me.”

### MEMONEK BENEFITS

**Memonek heroes have access to the following traits.**

#### SIGNATURE TRAIT: AERODYNAMIC

Your silicone body is aerodynamic and low in density. Whenever you fall, you reduce the distance of the fall by 2
squares.

#### SIGNATURE TRAIT: LIGHTWEIGHT

Your body is light for a creature of your height. Your size is considered 1S when being force moved by another creature.

Draw Steel © 2024 MCDM Productions, LLC

#### PURCHASED MEMONEK TRAITS

You have 4 ancestry points to spend on the following traits.

##### I AM LAW (Costs 1 Point)

Your lawful nature and quick reflexes give no quarter to enemies trying to get around you. Enemy creatures can’t pass
through your space unless you allow them to do so.

##### SYSTEMATIC MIND (Costs 1 Point)

You have an edge on tests to parse schematics, maps, and other systematic documentation that aren’t inherently chaotic.
In addition, you interact with any language you don’t know as if you know a related language, whether or not you
actually do.

##### UNPHASED (Costs 1 Point)

Your ordered mind can’t be caught off guard. You can’t be surprised.

##### KEEPER OF ORDER (Costs 2 Points)

Your connection to Axiom, the plane of uttermost law, allows you to manage chaos around you. When you or a creature
adjacent to you makes a power roll, you can remove an edge or a bane on the roll as a free triggered action. You can
only use this benefit once per round.

##### LIGHTNING NIMBLENESS (Costs 2 Points)

You can push your body to move at incredible speeds. Your speed is 7.

##### NONSTOP (Costs 2 Points)

Your connection to Axiom allows you to regulate your movements, even when other creatures would be forced to pause. You
can’t be slowed.

## ORC

“Even should an arrow pierce their heart, each kanin warrior has within them one last act of revenge.”

An anger that cannot be hidden. A fury that drives them in battle. Orcs are famed throughout the world as consummate
warriors—a reputation that the peace-loving orcs find distasteful.

The fifth of the speaking peoples, orcs arrived on Orden after humans and elves. They made their homes in the
borderlands between those two cultures, preferring the natural forests and avoiding the elf-haunted wodes. For
generations, this put them directly in the path of humans who cut down the trees and built roads and farms.

Each orc has within them a fire that causes their veins to glow once blood is drawn. This anger propels them right to
the edge of death. The dichotomy between their desire to be left alone and their zeal in battle is summarized in a
dwarven proverb:

“Be thankful orcs do not hold grudges.”

### ON ORCS

What a world we have made.

Indeed, what a marvel!

It is a marvel now, with the dragons and celestials, elementals and terrans. It is unseemly. It was better before things
started talking.

And having opinions. About our creation. About us!

Oh, I don’t know. I thought I agreed, but then look you what our sibling Ord has made. A fine people, these elementals.
They make marvels. Ord made them, and now they make miracles.

We make marvels. The world is a miracle, and enough.

Yes. But still. I think I might try my hand at children. It seems a worthy pursuit.

Heed the lesson of our Shamèd Brother. It was better before the coming of the terrans. Before the coming of war.

But war has come. Ord and I are of one mind in this: what is done cannot be undone. My children should not seek war, but
they would excel at it should it come to them.

They would be strong, like the elementals. But theirs would be a strength of spirit. They would never relent, never give
up. Always seeking, always striving. Like life itself.

They should love the forest and green things, like the children of Val. But they should be at home in the cities the
terrans and elementals build. In this world of chaos and law, they should seek balance. Not quick to anger. But once
angered? A wildfire.

If they excel at war, the terrans will be jealous. They will be in constant conflict with each other.

Perhaps. Yes, I think you’re right. It seems to be the great tragedy of our creation, war. But the constant threat of it
will bring wisdom. It will take great wisdom to avoid such conflict, and those possessed of such wisdom will become
great leaders.

Would they be lorewise and crafty?

Oh, I would leave that to them. It is not meet that children should be too closely molded by their parents. But you ask,
and my mind goes to Ket. They should lack the pride of Ket’s children…

Look where that got him.

Hush, you. We should not be too hard on our Brother In Mourning. He has paid for his hubris. My children would love the
world more than lore. That is my answer.

They seem a fine people, if you ask me.

And there they are, look at them! Kul, your thoughts made real! Only in the world a little while, and already growing,
learning.

Ah! My children! So fierce and unyielding. I see you lead short lives, like the terrans. Perhaps this is good.

I see they get along well with Ord’s children. I think this a good sign.

Already they make homes in the forests by the elves. Some little skirmishing over borders, I note. Nothing serious.

What shall you call them?

Oh, I do not care for such things. They should be free of our designs, like the terrans. Let them name themselves.

Oh! They already have! Kanin. It means “the people” in their tongue. I like that. Very democratic. Good for them.

And will they know you?

If they wish. Much as I agreed with…the Father of Men…I find worship unseemly.

Agreed.

Agreed!

Let me introduce myself, at least.

Ahem.

“Hear me, kanin! This world we made is yours, as much as it is anyone’s. You belong here.

“Know that you are my children, the children of Kul, he who put fire within the world. And there is fire in you. And
though the world and fate and baser minds may conspire to destroy your light, you will survive. And more than survive,
you will thrive. And in thriving, you will conquer!”

### ORC TRAITS

**Orc heroes have access to the following traits.**

#### SIGNATURE TRAIT: RELENTLESS

When a creature deals damage to you that leaves you dying, you can make a free strike against any creature. If the
creature is reduced to 0 Stamina by your attack, you can spend a Recovery.

#### PURCHASED ORC TRAITS

You have 3 ancestry points to spend on the following traits.

##### BLOODFIRE RUSH (Costs 1 Point)

The magic coursing through your veins makes you run faster in the heat of battle. When you take damage, your speed
increases by 2 until the end of the round. You can benefit from this feature only once per round.

##### GROUNDED (Costs 1 Point)

The magic in your blood makes it difficult for others to move you. Your stability increases by 1.

##### PASSIONATE ARTISAN (Costs 1 Point)

When you are stirred by passion for creation, your bloodfire allows you to work longer and harder. Choose two skills
from the crafting skill group. Whenever you make a project roll using these skills, you gain a +2 bonus to the roll.

##### GLOWING RECOVERY (Costs 2 Points)

Your bloodfire allows you to regain your strength quicker than others. You can take the Catch Breath action as a
maneuver.

##### NONSTOP (Costs 2 Points)

Your bloodfire supplies you with a constant rush of adrenaline. You can’t be slowed.

## POLDER

“Wait, where’d he go? Where’d that little son of a bitch go? AAAAGGH!”

After humans, polder are the most numerous and diverse ancestry in Orden. They are not humans, but they live in and
amongst humans and share their gods and culture. Almost every human culture in Orden has a polder saint or a human saint
venerated by polder.

Short, averaging three and a half feet tall, their origins are obscure. They are a young species who, like humans, have
no single patron god. Their ability to shadowmeld means they enjoy a reputation as excellent spies and thieves. Many
polder consider this a base slander and point out they’re also famed as chefs, though polder can be found in every
profession, especially in cities.

### ON POLDERS

The three peasants—Jago, his wife Sarah, and his sister Beth—sat together watching the three heroes talk in the crowded
common room of the inn. Well, Jackson Bootblack seemed to be doing most of the talking.

> “This kind of shit doesn’t work if it’s just a bunch of ratcatchers like us,” the polder said. “You need the people to
> rise up. Been fifteen years since Omund died—fifteen years of fighting wolves and bandits and worse. The people welcome
> a tyrant after that. They like order, you know? They adapt.”

> “If you stand on the grass long enough, it learns to lie flat,” *A Mist Coils Around Dying Embers* said. “But what do
> you say?”

> “Eh?” the polder asked her. But he glanced at Sir John staring at him.

> “You say the people have no stomach for rebellion,” Embers said. “But what about you?”

> “Oh,” the polder said, “I say it doesn’t matter much what I say. Why’s he looking at me like that?” the polder asked
> the high elf and pointed at Sir John. Realizing he was being rude, John shook his head to clear it. “Sorry, I just … I
> never met a polder before,” he said.

> “Are you kidding me?” Jackson said.

> “No! Sorry, I just …”

> “What are you, from the moon? Where you from that you never met a polder before? There’s polder in every fucking
> village and town from here to the sea.”

> “Really? That’s weird. I’m from Tor, I’ve been all over—just never met a polder before.”

Jackson looked at his friend, the high elf void mage. “Am I crazy?”

> “You’re not crazy.” Embers smiled. She was enjoying watching two of her friends get to know each other. “John’s just
> never run into one, it seems.”

> “Well, we’re adorable,” the polder said, and drank some ale.

> “They must have been around I guess,” John said. “I probably just never noticed.”

The polder put his drink down. “Oh, thank you. Thank you very much. You know, it’s funny. I never have any problem
noticing you big assholes. One of you makes about as much noise as a cow, which … I don’t even know how you manage
that.”

> “You’re talking just … my voice is just as loud as yours!”

Draw Steel © 2024 MCDM Productions, LLC

> “I mean the way you walk around. Just the way you move, the way you stand up and sit down. You make so much goddamn
> noise.”

Jago, Sarah, and Beth all smiled at the exchange.

> “Humans are loud, yes,” Embers agreed.

> “Do we have to … can we talk about something else, please?”

> “I just …” The polder wouldn’t let it go. “You seriously never … you never been to an inn? Cavall’s teeth, I can’t
> count how many inns and taverns I’ve been to run by polders, got polders in the kitchen or waiting tables. One of the
> only two things we’re good at, I think.”

> “Yeah?” John asked. “What’s the other one?”

The little man smiled.

> “Getting into places we ain’t supposed to be.”

> “Now we’re talking,” Sir John said. “You were saying we need the people behind us. I agree.”

> “Yeah, okay. To business: How to rally the people.” The polder took the question seriously. “It’s not hard. First, we
> need someone they’ll rally around. I could make someone up, invent a local folk hero, but if we can find the real thing?
> They just need to look the part, that’s all. I’ll take care of the rest.”

> “I’m working on that,” John said. “But it’s … slower going than I thought. I’m betting on a long shot.”

> “What’s the holdup?”

John thought about how to put what he knew into words.

> “You know,” he shrugged. “Some people can only be heroes if they think they’re better than everyone else. Some people
> can only be heroes once they realize they’re not. And some people …”

He looked at his drink, at the expensive clear glass the innkeep had given him because he recognized Sir John. He turned
the glass slowly on the table and now he was mostly talking to himself.

> “Some people still have to figure that out.”

> “Which is best?” Jackson asked, and Embers could tell the little man was testing John.

John took a deep breath and came back to reality.

> “Well. If we could be picky, we wouldn’t need a hero,” he said.

The polder looked at the high elf and nodded, impressed. Test passed.

> “Okay. Well, if you’ve already got a candidate, I could get things started. The other half is: we need a good
> story—short, punchy. Something that’ll catch on, needs to be easy to relate to, but bigger than life. A tax. A toll!
> Bridge toll, classic. An ogre … no, three ogres. Yeah, three is better. Three ogres in Ajax’s livery. A lone figure
> standing against them. See? Easy.”

> “Where are we going to find three ogres?” John asked.

> “What do you mean?” Now it was the polder’s turn to be confused.

> “What do you mean, ‘What do I mean?’ ” John said. “I’m not … we don’t need real ogres.” Jackson looked at the elf. “Is
> he for real?”

> “Trust me,” the void mage said.

> “You mean you’re going to make it up?! ” John exclaimed.

> “I…” Jackson looked with incredulity at the high elf void mage, then back at the human. “Yes, I do mean that. Does he
> know what I do?” he asked the elf.

> “He’ll learn.” Embers smiled.

The polder turned back to Sir John.

> “Hello. I lie for a living. And I’m really good at it. Sometimes also kill people, but only if lying or running away
> doesn’t work.”

> John turned to Embers. “I thought he was a thief.”

> “I was a thief,” the polder said.

> “You were a thief.”

> “Yeah, I was with the Clock. Probably still am—they don’t exactly let you just walk away. We sort of have an
> agreement. I agree to do what they tell me and they agree not to tell me to do anything.”

> “Did they kick you out, or did you quit?”

> “Depends on who you ask. I don’t like being told what to do. It’s sort of a polder thing. Hereditary or ancestral or
> whatever. Everybody wants a polder chef until they start trying to tell us what to cook.”

> “So what are you now?”

> “I’m annoying.”

The elf smiled.

> “He’s a troubadour—one of the best.”

Sir John looked at him, nodded.

> “No lute, I notice. And you don’t seem the type to sit by the hearth telling stories.”

> The polder grinned. “I ain’t that kind of troubadour. I’m the other kind. I think the best story is the one people
> tell each other.”

> “Propaganda,” Sir John said, a grin spreading across his face. The polder pointed a finger at him and smiled. John
> heard the door to the inn open behind him. This wasn’t notable, but the gasp from the customers was.

> “Hey,” the polder said, looking past John to the doorway. “Hey, I think our folk hero just showed up. Damn, he looks
> the part all right. Or she, I can never tell with these guys.”

John turned to see.

Sir Vaantikalisax loomed just inside the doorway, his scales and armor glowing in the light of the hearth fire. Sir John
shot up out of his chair, a huge smile on his face.

> “I, uh …” Vaantikalisax said. The tall, broad draconian looked from John to the three peasants. Jago, Sarah, and Beth
> were beaming with even more joy than John, if that were possible.

The knight stared at them for a moment, then turned back to his friend.

> “Maybe you’re right,” the dragon knight said.

Draw Steel © 2024 MCDM Productions, LLC

### POLDER TRAITS

**Polder heroes have access to the following traits.**

#### SIGNATURE TRAIT: SHADOWMELD

You gain the following ability:

##### SHADOWMELD

- **Keywords:** Magic
- **Type:** Maneuver
- **Distance:** Self
- **Target:** Self


**Effect:** You flatten yourself into a shadow against a wall or floor you are touching, and become hidden from any
creature you have cover or concealment from, or who isn’t observing you. While in shadow form, you have full awareness
of your surroundings, attacks against you and tests made to find you take a bane, and you can’t move or take actions or
maneuvers except to exit this form. Any ability or effect that targets more than 1 square affects you in this form only
if it explicitly affects the surface you are flattened against. You can exit this form as a maneuver.

#### SIGNATURE TRAIT: SMALL!

Your size is 1S.

#### PURCHASED POLDER TRAITS

You have 3 ancestry points to spend on the following traits.

##### CORRUPTION IMMUNITY (Costs 1 Point)

Your innate shadow magic gives you corruption immunity equal to your level + 2.

##### GRACEFUL RETREAT (Costs 1 Point)

When you take the Disengage maneuver, you can shift 1 additional square as part of the maneuver.

##### POLDER GEIST (Costs 1 Point)

When you start your turn while no creatures have line of effect to you, or while you are hidden from or have concealment
from all enemies with line of effect to you, your speed is increased by 3 until the end of your turn.

##### FEARLESS (Costs 2 Points)

Courage is all you know. You can’t be frightened.

##### NIMBLESTEP (Costs 2 Points)

Your light feet allow you to ignore the effects of difficult terrain and move at full speed while you are sneaking.

## REVENANT

> “I will suck the life from your flesh and leave you a withered corpse!”

The revenant null flexed his arms and assumed a fighting pose. He smiled.

> “Little late for that.”

The dead walk among us. Some of them are happier about it than others.

Unlike the necromantic rituals that produce wights and wraiths and zombies, revenants rise from the grave through a
combination of an unjust death and a burning desire for vengeance. Creatures sustained on pure will, they have no need
of food or water or air—and, unlike their zombified cousins, they retain all their memories and personality from life.

These revenants are rare. Many are hunted by ignorant villagers who see only their dead flesh and assume the worst.
Those who survive the pitchfork brigade either choose a solitary life, often as a wandering soul seeking out living
company yet constantly in fear of it, or they migrate to a metropolis such as Blackbottom or Capital, where lost souls
gather to make a home.

### ON REVENANTS

> “I’m telling you, we are being followed.”

> “No one knows we’re here. No one even knows this place exists! We got all day. We stash everything here, and take a
> sample to …” The head thief pulled a vial out of a crate stuffed with straw and looked at it.

> “It’s just …” The junior cutpurse spoke nervously. “There was this lady knight in Blackbottom sniffing around. She
> seemed serious. I got this weird … chill when I looked at her.”

> “Hey,” the head thief said, his brow furrowed as he looked at the label on the vial. “Where’d you say you bought this
> stuff? You said a ship—a ship from where?”

> “I dunno, uh … uh, Capital I think.”

The head thief looked at the panicking cutpurse.

> “This lady knight—she have a red and blue device on her shield?”

> “Black gods,” one of the other thieves said. “It can’t be Lady Filliamo, can it?”

There was a firm knock at the door to the safe house. A door which, from the outside, looked like an unremarkable
section of wall.

> “Oh, you’ve got to be kidding me.”

> “Nonono! How could she … Capital was nine months ago!”

> “She’s a revenant, idiot! She doesn’t even need air. She could have walked here! Just … into the water and across the
> bottom of the sea! Black gods, why didn’t you say anything?”

> “I did! You asshole, I just did! I been trying to tell you for—”

> “Man, there is a difference between, ‘Hey I think we’re being shadowed,’ and, ‘There’s a deathless copper coming after
> us!’ ”

One of the four thieves opened a vial and dipped his dirk into the red oil within.

> “What is that gonna do? She’s already dead!” Another knock at the hidden door. “Forget it. Let her knock. Grab as many
> as you can, and we’ll go out the back.”

The head thief ran for the door out the back of the safe house. He jerked it open—and the other thieves watched as a
silver flash silently flared across his forehead. Through the open door, they could see the silhouette of the knight,
her open hand held up in front of her.

She clenched her hand into a fist and the judgment she had placed on the head cutpurse detonated, hurling him backwards.
He sprawled across the floor, conscious but stunned.

The gray-skinned knight walked into the room. Metal heels rang out on the wooden floor. She seemed relaxed, but her eyes
burned with inner fire.

> “Boys,” Lady Filliamo said pleasantly. “Busy morning.”

> “How did you … this is impossible, how did you find us?”

She looked at the man groaning on the floor.

> “Your boss didn’t tell you about the vengeance mark?”

> “You marked us. Back in Capital. You marked one of us and just … just walked here.”

> “Don’t be stupid. I marked you in Blackbottom. Capital was just normal detective work. I came here by ship.” She
> smiled—black lips on pale gray skin.

> “Come on.” The braver of the three remaining thieves drew twin daggers. “She can’t get all of us at—”

Lady Filliamo made a broad gesture with her right hand and argent marks flared across the foreheads of all three
thieves. A clatter of weapons hitting the floor. Three pairs of hands slowly rose in the air.

> “Good boys. Here, put these on.” She tossed three pairs of manacles on the floor.

> “Hang on, you can’t arrest us,” one of the thieves, unarmed and still holding his hands up, said. “This isn’t Capital.
> You don’t have jurisdiction!”

Lady Filliamo shrugged.

> “I’m a knight of the church. Jurisdiction’s for the city watch.” She drew her silver sword a few inches from the
> scabbard just to show them the blade.

> “I deal in steel.”

### REVENANT TRAITS

**Revenant heroes have the following traits.**

#### SIGNATURE TRAIT: FORMER LIFE

Choose the ancestry you were before you died. Your size equals that ancestry’s size. Your speed is 5. You lose all other
ancestral benefits from your original ancestry.

#### SIGNATURE TRAIT: TOUGH BUT WITHERED

Your undead body grants you cold, corruption, lightning immunity, and poison immunity equal to your level. You also have
fire weakness 5. You can’t suffocate, and you don’t need to eat or drink to stay alive.

Additionally, when your Stamina equals the negative of your winded value, you become inert instead of dying. You can
continue to observe your surroundings, but you can’t speak, take actions, maneuvers, or triggered actions, or move and
you fall prone. If you take any fire damage while in this state, your body is destroyed and you die. Otherwise, after 12
hours, you regain Stamina equal to your recovery value.

#### PURCHASED REVENANT TRAITS

You have 2 ancestry points to spend on the following traits, or 3 ancestry points to spend if your size is 1S.

##### PREVIOUS LIFE: 1 POINT (Costs 1 Point)

You gain a purchasable trait that costs 1 ancestry point from your previous ancestry. You can take this trait multiple
times, selecting a new cost 1 trait from your previous ancestry each time you take this trait.

##### UNDEAD INFLUENCE (Costs 1 Point)

Your supernatural gifts allow you to influence other undead. You gain an edge on Reason, Intuition, and Presence tests
made to interact with undead creatures.

##### BLOODLESS (Costs 2 Points)

For you, an open wound is indistinguishable from a scratch. You can’t become bleeding.

##### PREVIOUS LIFE: 2 POINTS (Costs 2 Points)

You gain a purchasable trait that costs 2 ancestry points from your previous ancestry.

##### VENGEANCE MARK (Costs 2 Points)

As a maneuver, you place a magic sigil on a creature within 10 squares of you. When you place a sigil, you can decide
where it appears on the creature’s body, and whether the sigil is visible to only you or to all creatures.

You always know the direction to the exact location of a creature who bears one of your sigils and is on the same world
as you.

You can have an active number of sigils equal to your level. You can remove a sigil from a creature harmlessly (no
action required). If you are already using your maximum number of sigils and place a new one, your oldest sigil
disappears with no other effect.

Additionally, you gain the following ability:

###### DETONATE SIGIL

A magical sigil you placed on a creature explodes with energy.

- **Keywords:** Attack, Magic, Ranged
- **Type:** Action
- **Distance:** Ranged 10
- **Target:** 1 creature with your sigil

**Power Roll + Reason, Intuition, or Presence:**

- 11 or lower: 2 damage; slide 1
- 12–16: 4 damage; slide 2
- 17+: 6 damage; slide 3


**Effect:** The sigil disappears from the creature.

## TIME RAIDER

> “I fear no living thing, but the time raiders.”  
> —Chief Executive Admiral Lithiri Aswandala, Commander of the HOV First Get Behind Them Memonek

The original servitor species of the synliiroi—evil psions with near god-like power—the kuran’zoi liberated themselves
during the First Psychic War. In the centuries since, they built their own culture and civilization as nomads of the
timescape. The exonym “time raiders” was given to them by denizens of the lower worlds who, seeing the advanced
technology they wield, concluded they must be from the future.

Extraordinarily rare in Orden, the time raiders thrive on the Sea of Stars, the Sea Between Worlds, where the winds of
limbo roar.

In place of eyes, kuran'zoi possess crystalline ocular sensors that grant them high-spectral vision hardened against the
extreme radiations encountered in the Sea of Stars, permitting them to operate freely outside their vessels with only
their portable rebreathers. Time raiders also have two sets of arms, allowing them to wield melee weapons at the same
time as ranged weapons. A single well-trained kuran’zoi is like a squad unto themself.

### ON TIME RAIDERS

> “You will tell me the location of the ship you came here in.”

Taxiarch Lycaon paced outside the ruined church. The four-armed woman with crystal eyes and flaming pink hair in a strip
down the center of her shaved head sneered at him. She was chained to the ruin of a stone column outside the ruin of a
stone church.

> “Is it that your brain is so small you must talk in order to think?” The woman’s smile was a sneer.

Lycaon strode toward the alien, grabbed a length of chain around her waist, and yanked on it, pulling it taut so the
chain around her neck tightened.

> “You are going to die in any event,” he said. “If you wish to deny me the pleasure of hearing you howl and scream for
> mercy, tell me what I want to know now and my dogs will kill you quickly.”

Up close, she could see the fine stitching along Lycaon’s cheeks and forehead, the very slight differences in skin tone
that showed his skin was not his own.

> “You seem to be made of bits,” the alien said as she peered at Lycaon, her crystalline eyes catching and reflecting
> prismatic light. “And not the best bits. Leftovers? Is that what you are? A walking assemblage of cast-off scraps?
> Hahah, I thought the proteans were hideous. Someone should let them know! There are creatures even more foul-seeming and
> useless in the timescape.”

The Taxiarch smiled to himself, nodded with respect at the woman’s epithets. He placed his foot on a low piece of
rubble, once part of the wall of the stone church, and leaned his arm on his knee. He was not dressed as the other war
dogs. No black leather for him. He wore a gold breastplate with the embossed head of a ram molded into it, a white cape
over his back. Gold greaves and red leather boots and gloves. The other war dogs only had patches of hair, but his was
long and blonde.

He struck a casual, jaunty pose.

> “Where is your worldship?” he said in a more reasonable voice. “Or came you here in a single-seater starskimmer?”

At this, the alien’s crystal eyes went wide, betraying surprise.

> “You see?” The Taxiarch said, impressed with himself. “I am not a primitive like these peasants, who hounded you
> because you are alien,” he nodded at the folk of the small town watching from the stables some distance away. “I am
> Ajax’s elite. Better than his chosen. I was made for victory.”

Indeed, Taxiarch Lycaon looked almost fully human. Handsome and fit like a statue from Phaedros, which his model had
almost certainly been inspired by. Unless you looked closely, there was no sign he was a product of the body banks.

> “If you agree to lead me to your vessel, I will let you go free.”

The alien sighed.

> “‘Blaap blaap blaap,’” she said. “You should hear yourself. Like barking thrazz, you sound to me. Who holds your leash
> I wonder? For surely a microbrain such as you could not command any more than these rabble,” she nodded her head at the
> other twenty or so war dogs.

Her taunts worked. Lycaon hauled back and punched the alien in the jaw. Her head smashed into the ruined column. She was
dazed but she shook it off and laughed.

> “Look how easily this one is goaded!” she said. She spat out dark blue blood and turned to the peasants gathered. “You
> people! Why do you let yourselves be cowed by these … bits? Bits of people kludged together? Even the least of you is
> worth more than these.”

> “Perhaps from the air,” Flight Captain Lyria offered, and she stroked the feathers of her giant hawk mount to calm it.
> “I could scout the forest around the …”

> “No!” Taxiarch Lycaon pointed a finger at the hawklord and strode toward her. “You are the elite of Ajax’s winged
> harriers, I am his chosen brigade commander. We are not scavengers! This one,” he stabbed a gloved finger at the alien,
> “will come to heel, or I will give her to my war dogs.”

He turned to face the chained alien, who yawned. Lycaon seethed.

> “They may pull you apart,” he said to her, and at this, his squadron of soldiers, all in black leather and golden
> pauldrons, started making barking sounds. Then they laughed at each other.

> “Or I may let my crucibite melt the skin from your bones.”

At that, a war dog clad in leather from head to foot, wearing a heavy mask with glass circles where the eyes should be,
and some kind of canister over his mouth stepped forward. The long, thin brass tube in his hands connected to a large
metal tank on his back.

> “Shall I let you choose?” the Taxiarch said and drew a dagger from his belt. “I will cut off one finger. If you cry
> out, I kill you. If not, another finger. And if you cry out then…”

Slowly everyone assembled could make out the sounds of a conversation, quiet with a metallic ring to it. The voices got
louder until eventually, they could be heard.

> “... should be ready for anything,” one voice said, deep, commanding, and images started to form around and between
> the war dogs, the hawklord, and the Taxiarch. Like faded images in a manuscript they seemed, gaining pigment and clarity
> and, eventually, depth as their voices grew louder and clearer.

> “Oh, thank you for the brilliant tactical advice,” another voice, high-pitched, piped up.

Suddenly, the images became three-dimensional, solid, and four heroes stood among them. A human in working battle plate.
A polder with twin rapiers in his hands. A tall willowy high elf with night-black skin and golden hair. And a Dragon
Knight. The people of the town gasped when they saw him. Even at a distance, even with the war dogs between them, they
recognized the device of Good King Omund on the knight’s shield.

The war dogs scrambled. For a moment, it seemed they might flee at this sudden intrusion, but the Taxiarch Lycaon
bellowed “Hold fast!” and they held their ground, uncertainty over the unknown threat of a band of heroes battling in
each of them with the certain fear of their commander.

John immediately read the situation. It was a clear enough picture.

There was something about the war dogs. They loved Ajax’s cruelty—reveled in it. John had crossed swords with other
commanders in Ajax’s army before. Ground Commander Vordokov was a professional—could be reasoned with, but he was an
orc.

Not the war dogs—they were fanatics.

> “What’s this?” the Taxiarch called out with a hungry grin. “Allies of the alien?” He was projecting confidence, trying
> to muster his wary soldiers.

Sir John ignored the war dog, tilted his head toward the alien.

> “Embers?”

> “A kuran’zoi,” the high elf said, and the alien held her head up with pride. “A time raider from the upper worlds.
> What the truth is I cannot say, and no people are all one thing. But by reputation? They’re intractable, ungovernable,
> they loathe authority, hate tyranny and are totally, utterly without fear.”

John watched the alien. They sneered their approval at Ember’s summary. That was enough for Sir John; they could work
out the details later. After everything they’d been through before, he trusted Embers implicitly.

He could see the shape of the next moments play out; all he had to do was take the initiative. If he was right, the
whole thing would be over in seconds. There was no time to communicate. No time to plan, and everyone, everyone had to
play their part.

John knew what came next, but he wasn’t an assassin. He had his own part to play. He took a step forward, away from his
teammates, and noted the Taxiarch didn’t react. This spoke volumes. He locked eyes with his enemy.

> “She goes free,” John commanded, his voice steel, “or you die here.”

He could feel the muscles tightening in his comrades, the whole company like a steel spring wound tight.

Lycaon cocked his head at Sir John and took a few foolish steps toward the tactician. He was just out of reach. But
close enough.

> “I see you are a man, like Ajax. Why do you lower yourself with these … creatures?” the war dog Taxiarch looked at the
> elf, polder, and dragon knight. “Little more than slimy things crawled out of the sea? Join us. Join me. Join Ajax.
> It’ll be nice for you,” his voice lowered almost to a whisper, “to be on the winning side for a change.”

Sir John took a deep breath, his body language changed and that was enough. Several things then happened at once, so
quickly no one would later be able to say who acted first.

Ember’s eyes flashed into a starfield. The time raider’s chains dissolved into starspace and reappeared around Flight
Captain Lyria pinning her arms to her side. She was giving the hawklord an excuse to sit this one out. Gods, John was
glad she was with them.

The time raider’s right upper hand shot out, as though she’d been waiting for the void mage to do exactly what she just
did, and her meson blaster leapt out of the hands of the war dog who’d chained her. The pistol made of glass and bronze
slammed into her hand and its tip flared with prismatic light.

From the sun’s shadow cast by Taxiarch Lycaon, the polder Jackson Bootblack emerged, a rapier in each hand, and no one
had seen him move from where he’d been a moment before.

At the same instant, a call—a horn. From directly behind John a blast of sound like a chord played by a dozen trumpets,
and hope sang in John’s heart—the Clarion Call of the last Storm Knight!

John hadn’t hesitated; he’d already drawn his sword.

> “Alright, you patchwork son of a bitch.” He charged Lycaon who fumbled with the short-sword on his belt.

> “Draw steel!”

### TIME RAIDER TRAITS

**Time raider heroes have access to the following traits.**

#### SIGNATURE TRAIT: FOUR ARMS

Your multiple arms let you take on multiple tasks at the same time. Whenever you use the Grab or Knockback maneuver
against an adjacent creature, you can target an additional adjacent creature, using the same power roll for both
targets. You can grab up to two creatures at a time.

#### PURCHASED TIME RAIDER TRAITS

You have 2 ancestry points to spend on the following traits.

##### BEYONDSIGHT (Costs 1 Point)

As a maneuver, you can adjust your vision to allow you to see through mundane obstructions that are 1 square thick or
less. While your vision is adjusted this way, you can’t see and don’t have line of effect to any creatures or objects
within 1 square of you. You can return your vision to normal as a maneuver.

##### FORESIGHT (Costs 1 Point)

Your senses extend past mundane obscuration and the veil of the future alike. You instinctively know the location of any
concealed creatures who aren’t hidden from you, negating the usual bane on attacks against them. Additionally, whenever
you are attacked, you can use a triggered action to impose a bane on the power roll.

##### PSYCHIC SCAR (Costs 1 Point)

Your mind is a formidable layer of defense, granting you psychic and psionic immunity equal to your level.

##### PSIONIC GIFT (Costs 2 Points)

You gain one of the following abilities.

###### CONCUSSIVE SLAM

You slam an invisible force down upon the target.

- **Keywords:** Attack, Psionic, Ranged
- **Type:** Action
- **Distance:** Ranged 10
- **Target:** 1 creature or object

**Power Roll + Reason, Intuition, or Presence:**

- 11 or lower: 2 damage
- 12–16: 3 damage; push 1
- 17+: 5 damage; push 2; **M** [strong] prone

###### PSIONIC BOLT

You shoot forth a beam of psychic purple force that grips your target.

- **Keywords:** Attack, Psionic, Ranged
- **Type:** Action
- **Distance:** Ranged 10
- **Target:** 1 creature or object

**Power Roll + Reason, Intuition, or Presence:**

- 11 or lower: 2 psychic damage; slide 1
- 12–16: 3 psychic damage; slide 2
- 17+: 5 psychic damage; slide 3

###### MINOR ACCELERATION

You fill yourself or an ally with a burst of energy.

- **Keywords:** Psionic, Melee
- **Type:** Maneuver
- **Distance:** Self or Melee 1
- **Target:** Self or 1 ally


**Effect:** The target’s speed increases by an amount equal to your Reason, Intuition, or Presence score (your choice)
until the start of your next turn.

##### UNSTOPPABLE MIND (Costs 2 Points)

Your mind allows you to maintain your focus in any situation. You can’t be dazed.

# CULTURE

What makes a hero? Is their desire to stand up for the innocent and protect others somehow innate? Are they born knowing
that tyrants must fall? Does a higher power instill the idea that sometimes those least deserving of compassion are
those who need it most?

No. A hero’s life experience teaches them right from wrong—and that experience starts with the culture that raised them.

*Playtest note: Sample cultures are coming.*

## CREATING A CULTURE

A hero’s culture describes the beliefs, customs, values, and way of life held by the community in which they were
raised. This community provides life experiences that give a character some of their game statistics. Even if a hero
doesn’t share their culture’s values, those values shaped their early development and way of life. In fact, some people
become heroes primarily from the rejection of the ways of their culture.

For our purposes, a hero’s culture represents people, not a place. Yes, you might have grown up in the city of Capital,
but your culture is more specific than that. One hero’s culture might be House Alvaro, a noble house in Capital where
they were raised. Another’s culture could be a group or organization that moves around, such as a band of pirates or a
secret order of sorcerers sworn to protect books of fell magic. It helps to get specific when thinking about your
culture, and working with the four aspects of a culture can help you do that: language, environment, organization, and
upbringing.

### USING CULTURE

Directors can use the rules in this section to build cultures that players can choose for their characters. Players can
use these rules to build a unique culture or modify an existing culture for their character, working with the Director
to find a right place for that culture within the world of the campaign’s world. The Vasloria Cultures table provides a
cultural breakdown for Vasloria, the game’s medieval European fantasy analog. *Playtest note: That table is still to
come.* You can use the table for a campaign that takes place in Vasloria, or pillage from it liberally for a custom
setting.

In many worlds, at least some cultures have a majority ancestry. The people of Bedegar, a duchy in Vasloria, are mostly
humans. The folk dwelling in the Great Wode, a forest realm north of Bedegar, are primarily wode elves. However, you can
always choose to be from one of these cultures and take a different ancestry. A dwarf raised in the culture of the Great
Wode speaks Yllyric and probably knows a lot about nature, while a dwarf raised in the dwarven thanedom of Kal Kalavar
speaks Zaliac and might know a good deal about smithing.

### WHY BUILD A CULTURE?

Building a character is about more than adding up your stats, picking skills and abilities, and recording that
information on a character sheet. You’re building a hero—a main character in a story, be it a one-shot or a heroic
campaign. Think about the personality and the past of who you are creating. That’s why the game lets you build a culture
rather than simply saying, “Pick three skills and a bonus language.” We want players to imagine their heroes as complex
and intricate characters.

## CULTURE BENEFITS

The culture you choose or create grants you the following benefits:

- **You know the language of your culture, in addition to knowing Caelian.**
- **From the environment, organization, and upbringing aspects of your culture, you gain access to skills.** You can
  select one skill from each aspect’s list of options. *(See Skills for details.)*
- **You gain an edge on tests to recall lore about your culture, and on tests to influence and interact with people of
  your culture.**

### LANGUAGE

Your culture’s language aspect determines how the people of your culture communicate. This can be any language in
*Languages*.

### ENVIRONMENT

Your culture’s environment aspect describes where the people of that culture spend most of their time. Is your culture
centered in a bustling city or a small village? Did you spend your early life in an isolated monastery? Or did you
wander the wilderness, never staying in one place for long?

When you build a culture, select its environment aspect from the following options: nomadic, rural, secluded, urban, or
wilderness. You then gain skill options from your chosen environment. All of these environments can be found in any sort
of terrain, whether aboveground, in subterranean caverns, deep in trackless forest, or even underwater.

#### NOMADIC

A nomadic culture travels from place to place to survive. They might follow animal migrations or the weather, travel to
sell their wares or services, or simply enjoy a restless lifestyle full of new experiences and peoples. Those who grow
up in nomadic cultures learn to navigate the wilderness and interact with others.

**Skill Options:** One skill from the exploration or interpersonal skill groups.

#### RURAL

A rural culture is one located in a town, village, or smaller settled enclave. People dwelling in such places often
cultivate the land, trade goods or services with travelers passing through, harvest fish from the sea, or mine metals
and gems from the earth.

Living among a small population, most folks in a rural community learn a trade and are handed down bits of essential
knowledge to help their community survive.

For example, when a rural culture has only one blacksmith, it’s important to have an apprentice already learning at the
anvil well before that smith starts to get old. If the only priest in town gets the sniffles, folks want an acolyte
ready to wear the fancy robes should the worst occur.  
**Skill Options:** One skill from the crafting or lore skill groups.

#### SECLUDED

A secluded culture is based in one relatively close-quarters structure—a building, a cavern, and so forth—and interacts
with other cultures only rarely. Such places are often buildings or complexes such as monasteries, castles, or prisons.
Folk in a secluded culture have little or no reason to leave their home or interact with other cultures on the outside,
but might have an awareness of those cultures and of events happening outside their enclave.

When people live together in close quarters, they typically learn to get along. They often spend much time in study or
introspection, as there is not much else to do in seclusion.  
**Skill Options:** One skill from the interpersonal or lore skill groups.

#### URBAN

An urban culture is always centered in a city. Such a culture might arise within the walls of Capital, a massive
metropolis with a cosmopolitan population; within a network of caverns that hold an underground city; or in any other
place where a large population lives relatively close together. The people of urban cultures often learn to effectively
misdirect others in order to navigate the crowds and the political machinations that can come with city life.  
**Skill Options:** One skill from the interpersonal or intrigue skill groups.

#### WILDERNESS

A wilderness culture doesn’t attempt to tame the terrain in which its people live, whether desert, forest, swamp,
tundra, ocean, or more exotic climes. Instead, the folk of such a culture thrive amid nature, taking their sustenance
and shelter from the land itself. A wilderness culture might be a circle of druids protecting a great wode, a band of
brigands hiding out in desert caves, or a camp of orc mercenaries who call the trackless mountains home. People in a
wilderness culture learn how to use the land for all they need to live, typically crafting their own tools, clothing,
and more.  
**Skill Options:** One skill from the crafting or exploration skill groups.

### ORGANIZATION

Your culture’s organization aspect determines the functioning and leadership of your community. You might come from a
place with an officially recognized government and a system of laws. Or your culture might have enjoyed a less formal
organization, with the people in charge having naturally gravitated toward their positions without any official offices
or oaths.

When you build a culture, select its organization aspect from the following options: anarchic, bureaucratic, or
communal. You then gain skill options from your chosen system of organization.

#### ANARCHIC

In an anarchic culture, there are no rules and no one person leads the others. This might sound like complete
chaos—people taking what they want when they want it—and some cultures that practice anarchy are. Other anarchic
cultures are peaceful places where people mostly work for themselves, their friends, or their family, but rely on the
whole group when times get tough.

Many anarchic cultures come together when the need arises, but they leave day-to-day responsibilities up to the
individual. If an informal leader appears, it’s because each member of the culture has decided to follow that person for
a time, and the leader enjoys their power only as long as they keep everyone happy. A group of rangers who protect a
vast forest, a gang of rebels fighting against a tyrannical despot leader, and a bandit group roving the wilds without a
leader are all anarchic cultures.

Most anarchic cultures operate outside of settled lands, sticking to the wilds, city sewers, or other secret places. For
even when such cultures are harmless, their members know that outsiders might try to impose rules upon them if they live
in the same place. As such, many folks in anarchic cultures learn how to navigate the wilds and fend for themselves
while avoiding the danger that other folks can represent.  
**Skill Options:** One skill from the exploration or intrigue skill groups.

#### BUREAUCRATIC

Bureaucratic cultures are steeped in official leadership and formally recorded laws. Members of such a culture are often
ranked in power according to those laws, with a small group of people holding the power to rule according to birthright,
popular vote, or some other official and measurable standard. Many bureaucratic communities have one person at the very
top, though others might be ruled by a council. A trade guild with a guildmaster, treasurer, secretary, and a charter of
rules and regulations for membership; a feudal lord who rules over a group of knights, who in turn rule over peasants
who work the land; and a militaristic society with ranks and rules that its people must abide are all examples of
bureaucratic cultures.

Those who thrive in bureaucratic cultures don’t just follow the rules. They know how to use those rules to their
advantage, either bending, changing, or reinterpreting policy to advance their own interests. Schmoozing with those who
make the laws is often key to this approach. Others in a bureaucratic culture might specialize in operating outside the
strict regulations that govern the culture without getting caught.  
**Skill Options:** One skill from the intrigue or lore skill groups.

#### COMMUNAL

A communal culture is a place where all members of the collective are considered equal. The community works together to
make important decisions that affect the majority of the culture.

each person has a relatively equal say in how the culture operates, and everyone contributes to help their people
survive and thrive. Individuals often share the burdens of governing, physical labor, childcare, and other duties. A
collective of farmers who work together to cultivate and protect their land without a noble, a city of pirates where
each person can do as they wish, and a traveling theatrical troupe whose members vote on every artistic and
administrative decision are all communal cultures.

People in communal cultures learn that their voice and individuality have worth, as do the opinions and hard work of
others.  
**Skill Options:** One skill from the crafting or interpersonal skill groups.

### UPBRINGING

Your culture’s upbringing aspect is a more specific and personal part of your hero’s story, describing how you were
individually raised within your culture. Were you trained to become the newest archmage in a secret order of wizards, or
to be a sword-wielding bodyguard who protected that arcane organization? Did you learn to delve deep into mines looking
for ore in a mountain kingdom, or did you build machines meant to dig faster and deeper than any person could alone?
Whatever your culture, your upbringing makes you special within that culture.

Pick your upbringing aspect from the following list: academic, creative, illegal, labor, martial, or noble. You then
gain skill options from your chosen aspect.

#### ACADEMIC

Heroes with an academic upbringing were raised by people who collect, study, and share books and other records. Some
academics focus on one area of study, such as a college for wizards dedicated to the study of magic, or a church that
teaches the word of one deity. People in an academic culture learn how to wield the power that is knowledge.  
**Skill Options:** One skill from the lore skill group.

#### CREATIVE

Heroes with a creative upbringing were raised among folk who create art or other works valuable enough to trade. A
creative culture might produce fine art such as dance, music, or sculpture, or more practical wares such as wagons,
weapons, tools, or buildings. People in such cultures learn the value of quality crafting and attention to detail.  
**Skill Options:** The Music or Perform skill, or one skill from the crafting skill group.

#### ILLEGAL

Heroes with an illegal upbringing had caregivers who performed activities that other folk—whether within or outside
their culture—considered unlawful. A band of pirates, a guild of assassins, or an organization of spies all commit
unlawful acts for money. People with illegal upbringings typically don’t mind breaking the rules when it suits them—and
are good at making sure no one finds out they did.  
**Skill Options:** One skill from the intrigue skill group.

#### LABOR

People who labor for a living survive through cultivation, typically raising crops or livestock on a farm; by harvesting
natural resources, whether by hunting, trapping, logging, or mining; or through manual labor tied to settlement and
trade, such as construction, carting, loading cargo, and so forth. People with a labor upbringing know the value of hard
work.  
**Skill Options:** One of the Blacksmithing or Handle Animals skills, or one skill from the exploration skill group.

#### MARTIAL

Heroes who have a martial upbringing are raised by warriors. These might be the soldiers of an established army, a band
of mercenaries, a guild of monster-slaying adventurers, or any other folk whose lives revolve around combat. Heroes with
a martial upbringing are always ready for a fight—and they know how to finish that fight.  
**Skill Options:** One of the Alertness, Blacksmithing, Climb, Endurance, Fletching, Intimidate, Jump, Monsters, Ride,
or Track skills.

#### NOBLE

Heroes with a noble upbringing were raised by leaders who rule over others and play the games of politics to maintain
power. Many families are nobles by birthright, but some cultures have noble titles that are earned through deeds or
popularity. Whatever the case, heroes with this background understand why the whispered words in the right ear can
sometimes be more powerful than any army.  
**Skill Options:** One skill from the interpersonal skill group.

#### BUT I REALLY WANT ALERTNESS

If the culture you create doesn’t grant a skill that you want, check with your Director about modifying what the
culture’s aspects offer. For instance, you can easily make the case that a culture with the martial upbringing aspect
should give a character access to the Alertness skill, given that being successful in battle means always being aware of
your surroundings.

# CAREER

Hero isn’t a job. It’s a calling. But before you answered that call, you had a different job or vocation that paid the
bills. Thank the gods for that, because the experience you gained in that career is now helping you save lives and slay
monsters.

## CAREER QUESTIONS

The careers in this section don’t go into great detail about the actual jobs they represent. We assume that you know the
basics of what an artisan, a criminal, or a gladiator does for a living. However, each career does include a list of
questions that you should think about to help you define the specific details of your hero’s career. For instance, if
you pick the Artisan career, one of the questions is, “What did you create?” You don’t need to answer these questions,
but doing so helps shape a more complete picture of your hero.

## CAREER BENEFITS

Your career describes what your life was before you became a hero. When you select a career, you gain a number of
benefits, the details of which are specified in the career’s description.

### SKILLS

Each career grants you two or three skills. If a career grants you a skill you already have, you can select a different
skill.

### LANGUAGES

Some careers allow you to learn extra languages, chosen from those available in Languages.

### RENOWN

Some careers increase your starting Renown score. See Renown in Other Rewards for more information.

If your career or another option doesn’t increase your Renown score, then your starting score is 0.

### WEALTH

Some careers increase your starting Wealth score. See Wealth in Other Rewards for more information.

If your career or another option doesn’t increase your Wealth score, then your starting score is 1.

### PROJECT POINTS

Some careers provide project points that you can put toward research and crafting projects (see Research and Crafting in
future packets for more information). These points can be divided among multiple projects, but they can’t be used more
than once. At the Director’s discretion, your career might also let you start the game with the materials needed for one
or more projects, so that you can immediately put your project points toward them, possibly before the adventure begins!

### PERK

Your career provides you with a perk. You can select a perk of the type provided by the career. See Perks for more
information.

## INCITING INCIDENT

Each career has a list of inciting incidents, each of which suggests a potential reason why you gave up your career,
turned away from a possibly comfortable and reliable living, and took up the sword (or axe or wand) to become an
adventuring hero. Each inciting incident represents a life-changing event that might have motivated you to change
course, becoming a person who risks it all to save others.

You can roll for or choose an inciting incident from the table that accompanies each career. You can also use the table
as inspiration and work with your Director to come up with a unique inciting incident of your own.

_(Playtest note: There are currently only three inciting incidents for many careers. More are coming.)_

### WHAT WAS TAKEN FROM YOU?

During your inciting incident, something was taken from you. It might have been a material object, such as an heirloom
sword or a locket that proves your royal heritage. It could be a person you loved who was killed, kidnapped, or cursed.
It might be something deeper and more abstract, as with a chance for happiness or a lifetime goal snatched away.

It might be the case that you’re obsessed with getting back what you lost. You might be in a position where you’ll never
recover what was taken from you, but you want to prevent that same loss from happening to others. It might be a little
bit of both. Whatever the case, the loss you’ve suffered is part of what drives you to be a hero. Record what was taken
from you on your character sheet, and let your Director know.

## AGENT

You worked as a spy for a government or organization. In defining your career, think about the following questions:

- Who did you work for?
- Who did you spy on?
- Who shouldn’t know your true identity and allegiance but does?
- Who did you have to burn or leave behind to get a job done?

You gain the following career benefits:

- **Skills:** The Stealth skill, plus one skill from the interpersonal skill group and one skill from the intrigue skill
  group.
- **Languages:** Two languages.
- **Perk:** One perk from the intrigue perk type.

### AGENT INCITING INCIDENTS

| d6 | Incident                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  |
|----|-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| 1  | **Disavowed:** While on a dangerous espionage assignment, things went sideways. Although you escaped with your life, the mission was a public failure thanks to bad information your agency gave you. They denied you work for them, and you went on the run. Hero work will let you survive and clear your name.                                                                                                                                         |
| 2  | **Faceless:** Your identity was always hidden. It was your way of protecting those around you because the work you did spying on powerful entities came with dangers. Then your world came crashing down when an enemy agent unmasked you, causing you to lose everything—privacy, livelihood, loved ones, all gone in the blink of an eye. Instead of going into hiding, you became a public hero to protect the innocent in the name of those you lost. |
| 3  | **Free Agent:** There was a time in your life when you used to sell information to the highest bidder. Your acts were unsanctioned by any one organization, but you were well-connected enough to trade in secrets. Politics never mattered much to you until the information you sold wound up causing a ripple effect of harm that eventually destroyed the place you once called home. You became a hero to make up for your past.                     |
| 4  | **Informed:** After years of cultivating a rich list of informants, one risked everything to expose heinous plans by powerful individuals. You promised to protect your informant, but your agency left them hanging—literally. You cut ties with your employer and swore to always make good on your word as a hero.                                                                                                                                     |
| 5  | **Spy Who Loved Me:** While embedded in an undercover assignment, you fell for someone on the other side. Your lies were discovered, and though you insisted your feelings were real, the deceit cut too deep for your love interest to look past. That person exposed you, spurned you, or died because of their closeness to you. You left the espionage business to become a hero with nothing to hide.                                                |
| 6  | **Turncoat:** You spent your life in service of your country or an organization that upheld your values. During your undercover operations, you discovered everything you were told was a lie. Whether you confronted your superiors or were exposed, your service medals were stripped of you before you left to become a true hero.                                                                                                                     |

## ARISTOCRAT

Career? Who needs a career when you’re born with a lot of money! Or marry into it! Or con your way into it! Whatever the
case, you didn’t need to work thanks to (someone’s) generational wealth. In defining your career, think about the
following questions:

- How did you become an aristocrat?
- What did you do to fill your days?
- Which aristocrats and people who worked for you were your best friends and greatest enemies?
- What sentimental heirloom from your old estate do you carry, and what does it mean to you?

You gain the following career benefits:

- **Skills:** One skill from the interpersonal skill group and one skill from the lore skill group.
- **Languages:** One language.
- **Renown:** +1.
- **Wealth:** +1.
- **Perk:** One perk from the lore perk type.

### ARISTOCRAT INCITING INCIDENTS

| d6 | Incident                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               |
|----|----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| 1  | **Blood Money:** When you entered adulthood, you heard unsavory whispers about your family’s fortune before learning that their wealth came at the cost of others’ suffering. Whether you shed light on the secret or not, you left to become a hero stripped of noble title.                                                                                                          |
| 2  | **Charmed Life:** Through some treasure or innate ability, you were able to defraud other aristocrats. You did it for fun. When you were found out, you lost your status. Whether you served time or escaped from punishment, you decided to rehabilitate yourself and became a hero to earn an honest living.                                                                         |
| 3  | **Inheritance:** The very guardians who instilled in you the virtues of doing the right thing were murdered in a senseless petty robbery. Though their wealth was bequeathed to you, it did little to assuage the guilt you felt for not being able to stop the deadly crime. You decided to use your riches to fund your life as a hero, whether publicly or using an alter-ego.      |
| 4  | **Privileged Position:** Life outside the manor never piqued your interest. You had everything you wanted. It came as a surprise when the peasants came to overthrow your family. You narrowly escaped, and for the first time witnessed the world. It caused you to become a hero for the people, fighting against inequities.                                                        |
| 5  | **Royal Pauper:** Seeking a break from noble duties, you sought a lookalike to switch identities. It went so well that you made a habit of switching whenever bored. Unfortunately, your counterpart became so good at imitating you that they convinced everyone you were an imposter. You lost contact with your family, but pursue a heroic path free of the pomp of your old life. |
| 6  | **Wicked Secret:** One parent passed away when you were a baby and the other remarried years later. They died under suspicious circumstances. Their spouse ousted you, and you were banished (and possibly hunted). Rising from tragedy, you have sought to right the wrongs of the world.                                                                                             |

## ARTISAN

You made and sold useful wares. In defining your career, think about the following questions:

- What did you create?
- Who taught you your craft?
- Was there any particular creation you were known for?
- Did you have a shop, or did you travel to sell your wares?

You gain the following career benefits:

- **Skills:** Two skills from the crafting skill group.
- **Languages:** One language.
- **Project Points:** 240.
- **Perk:** One perk from the crafting perk type.

### ARTISAN INCITING INCIDENTS

| d3 | Incident                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         |
|----|--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| 1  | **Continue the Work:** A great hero was a fan of the things you created and gave you a generous commission to create your best work for them. While working on this commission, you and the hero became close friends. The day you finished the work was the same day they disappeared. To honor their legacy, you took up the mantle of a hero with the intent of finishing your friend’s work. |
| 2  | **Inspired:** As you traveled the road selling your wares, troll bandits attacked you. One of the bandits claimed an item belonging to someone precious to you—or perhaps claimed that person’s life—but the rest were driven off or slain by a group of heroes. Seeing the quick work these heroes made of the bandits inspired you to follow in their footsteps.                               |
| 3  | **Robbery:** A criminal gang stole your goods and harmed a number of people who worked for you. You became a hero to prevent such indignities from being visited upon others, to seek revenge for the assault, or to find the thieves and get your stuff back.                                                                                                                                   |

## BEGGAR

You lived by going to a tavern, crossroads, city street, or other busy area and begging the passersby for money or food.
In defining your career, think about the following questions:

- What are the unfortunate circumstances that led you to becoming a beggar?
- Where did you beg?
- Who made sport out of bullying you?
- Who showed you the most kindness?

You gain the following career benefits:

- **Skills:** The Rumors skill, plus one skill from the exploration skill group and one skill from the interpersonal
  skill group.
- **Languages:** Two languages.
- **Perk:** One perk from the interpersonal perk type.

### BEGGAR INCITING INCIDENTS

| d6 | Incident                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          |
|----|---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| 1  | **Champion:** You were never content with your lot. Watching yet another friend fall to preventable circumstances was your last straw. You gathered up what little you had and set off to become a hero, determined to make real change for those society forgot.                                                                                                                                 |
| 2  | **Night Terrors:** Something killed the other beggars. It came in the night. You barely saw it, but what you saw of it wasn’t natural. You survived by hiding, or maybe it simply passed you over for reasons unknown to you. It still haunts your nightmares, and you kill monsters so no one else has to experience such horrors.                                                               |
| 3  | **One Good Deed:** You ran afoul of the local watch by being in the wrong place when they were in a bad mood. A passing hero intervened on your behalf, shaming the guards into moving on, then gave you enough gold to get you back on your feet. Their kindness kindled a spark in you. You took the gold, bought some secondhand gear, and went to pay that hero’s kindness forward.           |
| 4  | **Precious:** No matter how far you’d fallen, there was one belonging you would never part with, no matter how much money it would bring you. When a pickpocket nicked it, you chased them until you were in a part of the city you no longer recognized. With a jolt, you realized you had no desire to return to your previous stomping grounds. You kept going, and you haven’t looked back.   |
| 5  | **Strange Charity:** A passerby dropped something in your cup. When you counted your day’s collections, you found a magic coin among the coppers. You knew immediately that it was special. When the other beggars—your friends, you thought—were ready to murder you for it, you killed several of them in self-defense before you fled, leaving behind the only semblance of community you had. |
| 6  | **Witness:** You saw something you weren’t meant to see. They would kill you if they knew, and maybe they’re searching for you even now. You remain on the move, terrified of remaining in one place too long lest it all catch up to you. Perhaps if you make a big enough name for yourself, you can become untouchable and can finally speak of what you saw without fear.                     |

## CRIMINAL

You once worked as a bandit, insurgent, smuggler, outlaw, or even as an assassin. In defining your career, think about
the following questions:

- What sorts of crimes did you commit, and why?
- Did anyone help you perform your illicit activities?
- What’s one crime that you botched?
- Who was your nemesis while you were a criminal?

You gain the following career benefits:

- **Skills:** The Criminal Underworld skill, plus two skills from the intrigue skill group.
- **Languages:** One language.
- **Project Points:** 120.
- **Perk:** One perk from the intrigue perk type.

### CRIMINAL INCITING INCIDENTS

| d3 | Incident                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                |
|----|-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| 1  | **Atonement:** The last criminal job you pulled led to the death of someone or the destruction of something you love. In order to make up for the loss you caused, you left your criminal ways behind and became a hero.                                                                                                                                                                                                |
| 2  | **Friendly Priest:** You went to prison for your crimes and eventually escaped. An elderly priest took you in and shielded you from the law, convinced that your soul wasn’t corrupt. They never judged you for your past, speaking only of the future. Eventually, the priest died, imparting final words that inspired you to become a hero.                                                                          |
| 3  | **Stand Against Tyranny:** When a tyrant rose to power in your homeland, they began cracking down on all criminals with deadly raids and public executions. The nature of the crime didn’t matter—pickpockets and beggars were made to kneel before the axe alongside murderers. After losing enough friends, you stood up and joined the resistance—not just against this tyrant, but against authoritarians anywhere. |

## DISCIPLE

You worked in a church, temple, or other religious institution as part of the clergy. In defining your career, think
about the following questions:

- What gods or saints did your institution venerate?
- What initiation rites did you experience to get the job?
- What responsibilities did you have as a disciple?
- How did members of the culture where you worked view your institution?

You gain the following career benefits:

- **Skills:** The Religion skill, plus two skills from the lore skill group.
- **Project Points:** 240.
- **Perk:** One perk from the supernatural perk type.

### DISCIPLE INCITING INCIDENTS

| d6 | Incident                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          |
|----|-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| 1  | (Blank?)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          |
| 2  | **Dogma:** Although you joined the religious institution under the guidance of a kind mentor, others within the house of worship became increasingly fanatical in their convictions. Your mentor sought to be a voice of reason in the rising tide of hatred and was tried as a heretic before being executed. Leaving the institution behind, you became a hero to uphold the beliefs you hold dear.                             |
| 3  | **Freedom to Worship:** Your temple was destroyed in a religious conflict. Leaders of the institution sought retaliation, but you saw in these actions a ceaseless cycle of destruction that would lead to more conflict. Instead, you became a hero to protect religious freedoms, so all worshipers could practice their faith without fear.                                                                                    |
| 4  | **Lost Faith:** You devoted your life to ministering to the sick and needy and other charitable work. Time and time again, travesty struck those you served without rhyme or reason. Your prayers went unanswered, and efforts went thankless. Eventually, you lost your faith in a higher power, and you left your church or temple to do good outside of any religious affiliation.                                             |
| 5  | **Near Death Experience:** While serving at a religious institution, you almost died in an accident. When you woke, you lost all your memories of ever having worked for the church or temple. Though the clergy encouraged you to stay, you left to forge a new path. Your sense of altruism—whether instilled in you by your past work or a part of who you naturally are—guides you in your life.                              |
| 6  | **Taxing Times:** The faith-based organization that you were once part of became corrupt. It used its status in the community to accumulate wealth through tithes, and its leaders sought political appointments. During a season of drought, the institution stockpiled resources and refused to give aid, resulting in the death of many. You became a hero to fight against such corruption and to honor your dearly departed. |

## EXPLORER

You ventured into uncharted areas and made your living as a cartographer, researcher, or resource or treasure hunter. In
defining your career, think about the following questions:

- For what purpose did you explore the unknown?
- Who else was part of your exploration team?
- What types of environments did you explore?
- What legend or rumor did you search for but never found?
- What is your greatest discovery?

You gain the following career benefits:

- **Skills:** The Navigate skill, plus two skills from the exploration skill group.
- **Languages:** Two languages.
- **Perk:** One perk from the exploration perk type.

### EXPLORER INCITING INCIDENTS

| d6 | Incident                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           |
|----|----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| 1  | **Awakening:** In an uncharted area, you awakened some dark horror. You have turned to the life of a hero to put an end to the horror you unleashed and keep other hidden dangers at bay.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          |
| 2  | **Missing Piece:** You made an important but dangerous discovery about a treasure or ancient ritual that could spell mass destruction. Then the unthinkable happened. An unscrupulous colleague, spy, or treasure hunter stole your research notes. You’re looking for them and anyone else who might use such discoveries for ill.                                                                                                                                                                |
| 3  | **Nothing Belongs in a Museum:** Traversing seas and mountains to collect valuable artifacts for cultural institutions was once your way of life. When people died attempting to reclaim one of these objects you took, you realized the truth. Your work was part of a larger problem of misappropriation, and the best place for these significant objects was not in a museum but with the people who created them. You set out to return what had been taken and protect others from thievery. |
| 4  | **Unschooled:** You delved into dungeons and far-off places by studying them in books. You were an explorer who never felt the need to experience the dangers of your peers. Your theory about a lost world cost you your reputation. It gave you the impetus to set out on adventure and stand up for those with different ideas.                                                                                                                                                                 |
| 5  | **Wanderlust:** As an explorer of new worlds, you saw yourself as an observer and operated with a code of conduct. You swore to never interfere with a group by exposing them to your technology, knowledge, or values. When faced with a moral conundrum, you either broke your code or stood idly by and suffered the consequences. During this incident, you lost your observation journal but became a hero who refuses to let evil stand unchecked.                                           |
| 6  | **Wind in Your Sails:** As a sea-faring explorer, you lived to chart unknown courses. Though travel on the high seas was fraught with danger, the destination was always rewarding in riches, knowledge, or some other meaningful way to you. Your luck ran out when your ship was destroyed by pirates or other enemy forces. You have taken to protecting those who seek safe passage while also hoping to avenge your crew.                                                                     |

## FARMER

You grew crops or cared for livestock. In defining your career, think about the following questions:

- Did you own the land where you farmed, or did you farm for another?
- What crops or livestock did you cultivate?
- Who else worked on the farm with you?
- What ill omen did you witness that caused you to have a poor season of farming?

You gain the following career benefits:

- **Skills:** The Handle Animal skill, plus two skills from the exploration skill group.
- **Languages:** One language.
- **Project Points:** 120.
- **Perk:** One perk from the exploration perk type.

### FARMER INCITING INCIDENTS

| d6 | Incident                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  |
|----|---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| 1  | **Blight:** A horrible blight swept over the lands, sickening the livestock and causing the crops to rot. You don’t know whether it is of natural origin or something more malevolent, but you set out in search of a way to cleanse the land of this affliction.                                                                                                                                                         |
| 2  | **Bored:** You’ve always wanted so much more than gathering eggs and milking cows. You kept a secret journal of your dreams, filled with all the things you wanted. When your parent found the journal, they burned it and told you to keep your head out of the clouds. You gathered what you could in a pack and left everything else behind, seeking a life of adventure.                                              |
| 3  | **Cursed:** While tilling your field, you found something in the dirt. Perhaps it was a chipped and dented weapon, a piece of ancient jewelry, or something altogether unique. Excited by your find, you showed it to a loved one, but when they touched it, something happened. You now know it was a curse conveyed by the item, though you don’t know why it affected them and not you. You left in search of answers. |
| 4  | **Hard Times:** Your farm had always been prosperous until the last few years. Changes in the weather caused smaller yields until you could no longer pay your tithe to the local noble. Her soldiers took what items of value they found, including a precious family heirloom. You left the struggling farm behind to find a better life.                                                                               |
| 5  | **Razed:** Your animals were killed, your crops and home set ablaze. The culprits could have been bandits, a band of raiders from a nearby kingdom, or hired thugs sent by a rival farm. Whoever they were, they left you with nothing. You couldn’t face the thought of starting again from scratch. You took up a life of heroism to protect others from such villainy.                                                 |
| 6  | **Stolen:** Your family bred horses, beautiful creatures that were rivaled on the track and in the jousting lists by few. When a nearby noble arrived with an offer to buy your prized stallion, your father refused. The noble struck him down where he stood and stole the horse. Without that stallion, the renowned bloodline would end. You intend to get it back—and get revenge.                                   |

## GLADIATOR

In the past, you entertained the masses with flashy displays of violence in the arena. In defining your career, think
about the following questions:

- What led you to this life of violent entertainment?
- What was your gladiator name and persona?
- Who was your biggest rival?
- What happened during your most famous match?

You gain the following career benefits:

- **Skills:** Two skills from the exploration skill group.
- **Languages:** One language.
- **Renown:** +2.
- **Perk:** One perk from the exploration perk type.

### GLADIATOR INCITING INCIDENTS

| d3 | Incident                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            |
|----|-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| 1  | **Betrayed:** A local crime lord offered you money to throw your last bout, promising that you’d live through the ordeal and get a cut of all the wagers placed on the match. You held up your end of the deal—which made the knife in your back after the loss so surprising. You woke in a shallow grave, barely alive, and ready to mete out justice.                                                                            |
| 2  | **Heckler:** As you stood victorious on the arena sands, a voice cried out among the cheering. “This violence is just for show. You should be ashamed. There are people who need you—who need your skills!” Why did that voice ring so clear? And why did it sound so familiar? You never saw the face of the person who uttered the words, but they weighed heavy on you. The next day, you fled the arena to begin a hero’s life. |
| 3  | **New Challenges:** You earned every title you could. You beat every opponent willing to face you in the arena. Your final battle with your rival ended with you victorious—and yet you were unsatisfied. There are other, greater foes out there, and you mean to find them.                                                                                                                                                       |

## LABORER

You worked as a farmer, a builder, a clothes washer, a lumberjack, a miner, or some other profession engaged in hard
manual labor. In defining your career, think about the following questions:

- What type of manual labor did you do?
- What important friendship did you make on the job?
- Where did you go with your coworkers to blow off steam when the job was done?
- What aspect of the job was most difficult for you?

You gain the following career benefits:

- **Skills:** The Endurance skill, plus choose any two skills from Blacksmithing or the skills of the exploration skill
  group.
- **Languages:** One language.
- **Project Points:** 120.
- **Perk:** One perk from the exploration perk type.

### LABORER INCITING INCIDENTS

| d3 | Incident                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             |
|----|--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| 1  | **Disaster:** A disaster, such as a cave-in, wildfire, or tidal wave, hit your crew while you were working. You saved as many folks as you could, but the ones you couldn’t save weigh heavily on your mind. You took up the life of a hero to save as many people as possible, vowing that what happened to you won’t happen again. |
| 2  | **Embarrassment:** A noble you worked for admonished you publicly for work done poorly—more than once. Finally, you had enough. You vowed to take up a new path and show this noble that you are far more than what they make you out to be.                                                                                         |
| 3  | **Live the Dream:** You worked with a good friend, and on the job, you’d always fantasize about what it’d be like to hit the road as adventuring heroes—someday. You didn’t count on your friend falling ill and passing away. Now it’s time to live out that dream for both of you.                                                 |

## MAGE'S APPRENTICE

For long years, you studied magic under the mentorship of a more experienced mage. In defining your career, think about
the following questions:

- Who did you study under, and what kind of person were they?
- What were your mentor’s areas of expertise?
- What aspects of magic did you struggle to comprehend?
- What is your current relationship with your mentor?

You gain the following career benefits:

- **Skills:** The Magic skill, plus two skills from the lore skill group.
- **Languages:** One language.
- **Renown:** 1.
- **Perk:** One perk from the supernatural perk type.

### MAGE'S APPRENTICE INCITING INCIDENTS

| d3 | Incident                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          |
|----|-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| 1  | **Oops:** While studying magic, you accidentally sent yourself from your original world to this one. Now you’re stranded here, hoping to get back home by finding ancient texts or powerful magical treasures that might transport you there. A life of adventure it is!                                                                                                                                          |
| 2  | **Ultimate Power:** The mage you worked for was a kindly old soul, but the basic magic they taught you always seemed like a small part of something bigger. It wasn’t until you met an adventuring elementalist that you realized hitting the road as a hero was the only way to truly improve and hone your skills. You resigned your apprenticeship and found yourself walking the path of a hero the next day. |
| 3  | **Missing Mage:** One day you woke up and the mage you worked for was just gone. They didn’t take any of their belongings, and there was no sign of any foul play—just the scent of sulfur in their bedchamber. You set out on your heroic journey in the aftermath and have been looking for them ever since.                                                                                                    |

## PERFORMER

You can sing, act, or dance well enough that people actually pay to see you do it. Imagine that! In defining your
career, think about the following questions:

- What is the tone of your performances?
- What song, role, or dance are you most known for?
- Did you perform in the same place throughout your career, or did you travel?
- Were you part of a troupe, or were you a solo act?

You gain the following career benefits:

- **Skills:** The Music or Performance skill, plus two skills from the interpersonal skill group.
- **Renown:** +2.
- **Perk:** One perk from the interpersonal perk type.

### PERFORMER INCITING INCIDENTS

| d3 | Incident                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     |
|----|----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| 1  | **Cursed Audience:** During a performance, you watched in horror as the audience was suddenly overcome by a curse that caused them to disintegrate before your eyes. You’re not sure what happened, but seeking that answer quickly led you to places where only heroes dare to go.                                                                                                          |
| 2  | **Fame and Fortune:** You thought you were famous—then that hero came to your show. Suddenly, all eyes were on the dragon-slaying brute instead of the stage where they belonged. The audience even gave them a standing ovation when they entered the room. All you got was polite applause. Fine. If people want a hero, then a hero you shall be.                                         |
| 3  | **Tragic Lesson:** When a producer who once shortchanged you shouted out on the street for you to stop a thief who had picked their pocket, your spite toward the producer inspired you to let the thief run right on by. But that decision led to tragedy when the thief later harmed someone you loved. From that moment on, you decided to make it your responsibility to protect others. |

## POLITICIAN

You worked as a leader within a formal, bureaucratic organization or government. You may have been appointed, birthed,
or elected into your position, but getting people to agree and making decisions for the people you serve (or who served
you) was your job. In defining your career, think about the following questions:

- Who were you responsible for ruling or representing?
- What was your official title and how did you earn it?
- Who was your greatest political rival?
- What secret do you know that could tear apart the entire system you worked within?

You gain the following career benefits:

- **Skills:** Two skills from the interpersonal skill group.
- **Languages:** One language.
- **Renown:** +1.
- **Wealth:** +1.
- **Perk:** One perk from the interpersonal perk type.

### POLITICIAN INCITING INCIDENTS

| d6 | Incident                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                |
|----|---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| 1  | **Diplomatic Immunity:** Your political power allowed you to be foolish without consequence. Through sheer carelessness or on a dare, you accidentally harmed or killed an innocent bystander. Due to your position as an official, you faced no consequences. This event was the final straw for the one who you loved or respected most, and they turned away from you. You left the world of political machinations behind to earn back their trust. |
| 2  | **Insurrectionist:** You created a charitable foundation to secretly fund a rebel organization intent on overthrowing the corrupt establishment. Someone close to you discovered your treason, and you were forced to leave or risk execution. You became a hero to live and fight another day on behalf of those who have no power.                                                                                                                    |
| 3  | **Respected Consul:** You were seneschal to a monarch or other leader, able to sway their opinions. Your proximity to power made you popular. Gossip convinced the monarch you were plotting an overthrow, and you were ousted from court. You became a hero to continue your work making meaningful change in the world.                                                                                                                               |
| 4  | **Right Side of History:** You tried to work on policy change from the inside of a bureaucratic organization. There were others like you who were more vocal. You started to notice those colleagues were disappearing overnight. Not wanting to find out if you were next on the list, you left to enact change in more direct ways.                                                                                                                   |
| 5  | **Self-Serving:** You used your skills to collect incriminating or scandalous information about your opponents to blackmail them. A rival got one step ahead of you and stole your book of dirty secrets, but instead of using it against you, they gave you an opportunity to leave the world of politics behind. Saved from public humiliation, you now use your skills for the greater good.                                                         |
| 6  | **Unbound:** If the paperwork and circuitous systems were not soul-crushing enough, the red tape required to get anything done through your political position resulted in a crisis being mishandled and countless lives harmed or lost. After that unfortunate event, you were determined to be unfettered by bureaucratic interference and sought to do good through action, not paperwork.                                                           |

## SAGE

From an early age, you dedicated yourself to learning, whether you shared the knowledge of the world with others or
sought out secret lore only for yourself. In defining your career, think about the following questions:

- What subjects did you study?
- Where did your studies take place?
- How did you acquire the books and other materials you needed for work?
- Who benefited most from your research?

You gain the following career benefits:

- **Skills:** Two skills from the lore skill group.
- **Languages:** One language.
- **Project Points:** 240.
- **Perk:** One perk from the lore perk type.

### SAGE INCITING INCIDENTS

| d3 | Incident                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  |
|----|-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| 1  | **Bookish Ideas:** You were always content to live a peaceful life in your library until you found that one book—the one that told the tale of heroes who had saved the timescape. They didn’t spend their days behind a desk. They made a real difference. It was time for you to do the same.                                           |
| 2  | **Cure the Curse:** You used to think knowledge could fix everything. You were wrong. When someone you loved fell under a curse, the means to cure them couldn’t be found in any of the books you owned. But that wasn’t going to stop you. The answers are out there, and you’ll find them even if you need to face down death to do so. |
| 3  | **Lost Library:** An evil mage took all your books for themself, cackling at your impotence as they raided your shelves. Now you’re off to search through ancient ruins and secret libraries to rebuild your collection of rare tomes—and to find the mage who stole from you.                                                            |

## SAILOR

You worked on a boat that might have been a merchant, mercenary, military, or pirate vessel. You may have been a
deckhand, mate, or even the captain. In defining your career, think about the following questions:

- What is the name of the vessel you sailed on and what type of business was the crew engaged in?
- What was your job aboard the boat?
- What’s the longest amount of time you spent at sea?
- Who or what did you lose at sea?

You gain the following career benefits:

- **Skills:** Swim, plus two skills from the exploration skill group.
- **Languages:** Two languages.
- **Perk:** One perk from the exploration perk type.

### SAILOR INCITING INCIDENTS

| d6 | Incident                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         |
|----|--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| 1  | **Alone:** You joined up with your best friend, sibling, or other loved one, the culmination of a lifelong dream to sail the high seas together. When they died, you lost your taste for the seafaring life. You left at the first chance you got and haven’t looked back.                                                                       |
| 2  | **Deserter:** It was in the middle of a raid when you realized you no longer believed in a life of piracy. You used the chaos of the moment to slip away unnoticed. You now work as a hero in an effort to atone for your past deeds and fear the day your old crew finds you.                                                                   |
| 3  | **Forgotten:** You awoke aboard your ship with no memory of who you had been before. Though the other sailors insisted they knew you, you didn’t know them. The next time you went ashore, you decided to stay, determined to find out who you really are.                                                                                       |
| 4  | **Jealousy:** You had the favor of your captain, a fact that earned you many rivals aboard your ship. One night, your fellow sailors pulled you from your bunk and threw you overboard. By some miracle, you were scooped from the waters by a passing vessel. You worked off your debt to them, then set out on a new life with less pettiness. |
| 5  | **Marooned:** There was a mutiny, and you were on the wrong side. You were marooned on an island and escaped when a merchant vessel got blown off course by a storm and found you. Your reputation is ruined among sailors, so you seek adventure elsewhere.                                                                                     |
| 6  | **Water Fear:** A catastrophic storm hit while you were at sea, destroying the ship and leaving you as the only survivor. Once you recovered, you tried to sign on with another ship, but the thought of the open water turns your legs to jelly. Instead, you’ve taken on the role of traveling hero to make ends meet.                         |

## SOLDIER

In your formative years, you fought tirelessly in skirmishes and campaigns against enemy forces. In defining your
career, think about the following questions:

- Which army and company did you serve?
- What conflicts were you a part of?
- What rank did you achieve?
- What heroics did you perform in the heat of battle?

You gain the following career benefits:

- **Skills:** One skill from each of the exploration skill group and the intrigue skill group.
- **Languages:** Two languages.
- **Renown:** +1.
- **Perk:** One perk from the exploration perk type.

### SOLDIER INCITING INCIDENTS

| d3 | Incident                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                |
|----|-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| 1  | **Dishonorable Discharge:** You enlisted in the military to protect others, but your commander ordered you to beat and kill civilians. When you refused, things got violent. You barely escaped the brawl that ensued, but now you vow to help people on your own terms.                                                                                                |
| 2  | **Out of Retirement:** You had a long and storied career as a soldier before deciding to retire to a simpler life. But when you returned to your old home, you found that your enemies had laid waste to it. Now the skills you earned on the battlefield are helping you as you become a different kind of warrior, seeking to save others from the fate you suffered. |
| 3  | **Sole Survivor:** You were the last surviving member of your unit after an arduous battle or monstrous assault, surviving only because of your luck. You turned away from the life of a soldier then, seeking to become a hero who could stand against such threats.                                                                                                   |

## WARDEN

You protected a wild region from those who seek to harm it, such as poachers and cultists bent on the destruction of the
natural world. You also knew your land well and could serve as a guide or leader of rescue parties for those wandering
the wilds. In defining your career, think about the following questions:

- What environment did you protect?
- Were you part of a formal group of wardens, or did you take the job upon yourself?
- Which animal became your constant companion while you worked in the wild?
- What mysterious creature or wanderer did you meet in the forest, and what prophecy did they share with you?

You gain the following career benefits:

- **Skills:** Nature, plus one skill from the exploration skill group and one skill from the intrigue skill group.
- **Languages:** One language.
- **Project Points:** 120.
- **Perk:** One perk from the exploration perk type.

### WARDEN INCITING INCIDENTS

| d6 | Incident                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      |
|----|---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| 1  | **Betrayed:** When outsiders arrived in your lands with the intent to exploit the land for its resources, you naturally spoke out against them. However, several other wardens spoke in favor of these outsiders and allowed them in to rip the land’s resources. Refusing to watch your homeland destroyed, you left. Now you help others avoid such a fate. |
| 2  | **Corruption:** A disease has infected your grove. The infection causes animals to become violent, and it twists the plants into something dark and sinister. You’ve tried everything, magical and mundane, to stop it, but it continues to spread. You’ve set out in search of a cure or an unblighted land to protect.                                      |
| 3  | **Exiled:** You made a mistake that could not be forgiven. The other wardens of the region decided your fate, casting you from your lands with an order never to return.                                                                                                                                                                                      |
| 4  | **Honor the Fallen:** A group of heroes arrived in your land with trouble close on their heels. You fought with them to turn back the evil, but it was too much. The heroes fell, and your land was forever altered. Though your lands are beyond saving, there are other lands you can help.                                                                 |
| 5  | **Portents:** There were signs. You tried to ignore them, but when a great beast died at your feet, you had to recognize the truth. You were meant to leave, meant to fight a battle for the fate of all the lands. You gave up the only home you’ve ever known.                                                                                              |
| 6  | **Theft:** You were responsible for guarding something precious, something vital to your region’s survival. You let someone in, and they betrayed your trust by stealing the thing you were meant to guard. You left your lands to atone for your mistake.                                                                                                    |

## WATCH OFFICER

You served as an officer of the law for a local government. You might have been a single person in a much larger city
watch or the only constable patrolling a small village. In defining your career, think about the following questions:

- What type of settlement did you protect?
- What was your law enforcement style like? Were you a by-the-book officer, a totally corrupt cop, or a more lenient but
  fair type?
- What criminal to this day has still eluded your grasp?
- Whose life did you save while in the line of duty?
- What is the most absurd call you ever responded to, and how did you handle it?

You gain the following career benefits:

- **Skills:** Alertness, plus two skills from the intrigue skill group.
- **Languages:** Two languages.
- **Perk:** One perk from the exploration perk type.

### WATCH OFFICER INCITING INCIDENTS

| d6 | Incident                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     |
|----|--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| 2  | **Corruption Within:** You joined the force to help the helpless and bring justice to those wronged. You weren’t prepared for the rampant corruption reaching the top of your organization. You refused to cover for your fellow officers and were told in no simple terms to leave town or face the consequences. Now you travel as a hero, acting as the protector you always wanted to be.                |
| 3  | **Frame Job:** Your partner was murdered. That’s irrefutable. But you didn’t do it, despite what the evidence implies. When it became clear you would take the fall, you fled, leaving everything behind. Not content to cower in the shadows, you decided to adventure under a new name while you work to clear your own.                                                                                   |
| 4  | **Missing Mentor:** You learned everything you know about the job from someone you always looked up to in a corrupt organization. One night, they sent you a cryptic message that they’d discovered “something big,” but before you found out more, they disappeared. No longer sure who you could trust, you slipped away and sought a new life. Now you do what good you can and search to find the truth. |
| 5  | **One that Got Away:** A particularly violent or depraved criminal evaded your grasp and then began targeting you—perhaps they stole something personal or hurt someone you love—before slipping through your grasp again. You left to pursue the criminal, but the trail has gone cold… for now. Might as well help folks in the meantime.                                                                  |
| 6  | **Powerful Enemies:** You made it your responsibility to root out and bring down the region’s foremost crime syndicate. They sent goons to burn down your home and teach you a lesson. They left you bleeding in the street, with nothing left except your life. You’ve taken on the life of a hero to gain the power and influence you need to destroy the syndicate once and for all.                      |

# CLASSES

(Playtest note: Introduction to come.)

Your class provides you with most of your abilities. For details on the ability format, see Abilities.

# CENSOR

Demons and devils fear you. Criminals run from the sight of your shadow in the alley. Agents of chaos, blasphemers, and
heretics tremble at the sound of your voice. You carry the power of the gods, armed with judgements and sent out into
the world first to seek, then censor those whose actions or even existence is anathema to your church.

You’re at your best against the strongest foes. Your judgments terrify heretics, stop enemies in their tracks, even hurl
them across the battlefield.

## BASICS

- **Starting Characteristics:** You start with a Might of 2 and a Presence of 2, and can choose one of the following
  arrays for your other characteristic scores:
    - 2, -1, -1
    - 1, 1, -1
    - 1, 0, 0
- **Starting Stamina at 1st Level:** 21
- **Stamina Gained at 2nd and Greater Levels:** 12
- **Recoveries:** 12
- **Skills:** Choose any two skills from the interpersonal or lore skill groups.

### CENSOR ADVANCEMENT

| Level | Features                                                                                                                    | Abilities Order | Abilities |
|-------|-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|-----------------|-----------|
| 1st   | Order, Deity and Domains, Judgment, Relentless Judgment, Domain Feature, Kit, My Life for Yours, Censor Abilities Signature | 3, 5            | -         |
| 2nd   | Extra Shield, Order Feature, Perk, Order Ability Signature                                                                  | 3, 5            | 5         |
| 3rd   | Look on My Work and Despair, 7-Piety Ability Signature                                                                      | 3, 5, 7         | 5         |

## 1ST-LEVEL FEATURES

As a censor, you gain the following features:

### ORDER

Censors are the will of their god made physically manifest in the world.

Choose one of the following orders. Your choice determines your Order features and Order triggered action in addition to
several features you get at later levels.

- **Exorcist:** An open mind is an unguarded fortress. You specialize in hunting the hidden enemies of your order. You
  gain the Read Person skill.
- **Oracle:** Corruption has deep tendrils that can be missed. You specialize in uncovering long-time scale threats to
  your order. You gain the Magic skill.
- **Paragon:** Without a strong example and a firm hand, the weak will be corrupted. You specialize in setting a visible
  example for your holy order. You gain the Lead skill.

### DEITY AND DOMAINS

Choose a god or saint who you revere from the Conduit Deities table or ask your Director about the deities in your
campaign world. With the Director’s permission, you can also create your own deity and can choose four domains to be
part of their portfolio.

After choosing your deity, pick one domain from their portfolio. Your choice of domains determines some of the features
you’ll gain from this class.

(Playtest note: More gods and saints are coming, along with their descriptions.)

#### CENSOR DEITIES

| Deity   | Domains                         |
|---------|---------------------------------|
| Adun    | Love, Protection, Storm, War    |
| Cavall  | Knowledge, Protection, Sun, War |
| Cyrvis  | Fate, Death, Nature, Trickery   |
| Malus   | Creation, Fate, Life, Knowledge |
| Salorna | Death, Nature, Storm, Sun       |
| Viras   | Creation, Life, Love, Trickery  |

### JUDGMENT

The power you serve grants you access to judgements with which you censor those your church deems heretics. Judgment is
your Heroic Resource.

#### JUDGEMENT IN COMBAT

When a combat encounter (or other stressful situation tracked in rounds as determined by the Director) begins, you gain
judgement equal to your Victories. At the start of each of your turns during combat, you gain 2 judgement. The first
time in a round that a creature judged by you deals damage to another creature, you generate and bank 1 judgment on
them. When combat ends, you lose all your judgement.

Abilities that target a judged creature can only target a creature with at least 1 judgment banked on them.

#### JUDGEMENT OUTSIDE OF COMBAT

Though you can’t gain judgment outside of combat, you can use your heroic abilities and effects that cost judgment
without spending it. Whenever you use an ability or effect that costs judgment outside of combat, you can’t use that
same ability or effect again outside of combat until you gain at least 1 Victory or finish a Respite.

If you use an ability that lets you spend unlimited piety on its effect out of combat, you can use it as if you had
spent an amount of piety on it equal to your Victories.

##### WRATH

- **Fear my wrath!**

- **Keywords:** Magic, Ranged
- **Type:** Maneuver
- **Distance:** Ranged 10
- **Target:** 1 enemy


**Effect:** You bank 1 or more judgment on the target. While a creature has at least 1 judgment on it, any targets
  they attack gain (SHIELD).

Each judgment banked on the judged creature increases the effectiveness of your censor abilities, indicated on your
order’s judgment type table below. A creature stays judged until the end of the encounter while they have any judgment
on them.

When using a heroic ability that targets a creature with judgment banked, you can spend banked judgment on that creature
to use the ability.

When the judged creature is reduced to 0 Stamina or otherwise removes the judgment, you can use a free triggered action
to take the judgment banked on the judged creature and move it to a new target within distance. Any judgment you do not
bank on this new target is returned to you.

When you bank judgment on a creature, you also gain one of the following benefits based on your order:

- **Exorcist:** You teleport a distance equal to twice your Presence score. This movement must take you closer to the
  judged target. You do not need line of effect for this movement.
- **Oracle:** You deal (SURGE) holy damage to the target and each enemy within 2 squares of the target.
- **Paragon:** You pull the target up to a number of squares equal to twice your Presence score.

##### EXORCIST RELENTLESS JUDGMENT

| Judgment | Benefit                                                                                                                                                                         |
|----------|---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| 2        | The target has a bane on all power rolls. Judgment from additional censors does not add more than one bane.                                                                     |
| 4        | The target is P [weak] weakened (save ends) whenever 1 or more judgment is added or removed from them, including the action that reached this level of judgment.                |
| 6        | The target takes (SURGE) holy damage whenever they take any action or fail a save.                                                                                                    |
| 8        | **Level 4** The target is P [average] weakened (save ends) whenever 1 or more judgment is added or removed from them, including the action that reached this level of judgment. |
| 10       | **Level 7** The target takes (SURGE)(SURGE) holy damage whenever they take any action or fail a save.                                                                                       |
| 12       | **Level 10**                                                                                                                                                                    |
|          | - The target is P [strong] weakened (save ends) whenever 1 or more judgment is added or removed from them, including the action that reached this level of judgment.            |
|          | - The target has a double bane on all power rolls.                                                                                                                              |

##### ORACLE RELENTLESS JUDGMENT

| Judgment | Benefit                                                                                                                                                                                               |
|----------|-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| 2        | The target has a bane on all power rolls. Judgment from additional censors does not add more than one bane.                                                                                           |
| 4        | The target is P [weak], their attack targets gain (SHIELD) (save ends) whenever 1 or more judgment is added or removed from them, including the action that reached this level of judgment.                |
| 6        | The target takes (SURGE) holy damage whenever they take any action or fail a save.                                                                                                                          |
| 8        | **Level 4** The target is P [average], their attack targets gain (SHIELD) (save ends) whenever 1 or more judgment is added or removed from them, including the action that reached this level of judgment. |
| 10       | **Level 7** The target takes (SURGE)(SURGE) holy damage whenever they take any action or fail a save.                                                                                                             |
| 12       | **Level 10**                                                                                                                                                                                          |
|          | - The target is P [strong], their attack targets gain (SHIELD)(SHIELD) (save ends) whenever 1 or more judgment is added or removed from them, including the action that reached this level of judgment.         |
|          | - The target has a double bane on all power rolls.                                                                                                                                                    |

##### PARAGON RELENTLESS JUDGMENT

| Judgment | Benefit                                                                                                                                                                       |
|----------|-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| 2        | - The target has a bane on all power rolls. Judgment from additional censors does not add more than one bane.                                                                 |
|          | - The target is taunted by you while they have judgment on them.                                                                                                              |
| 4        | The target is P [weak] slowed (save ends) whenever 1 or more judgment is added or removed from them, including the action that reached this level of judgment.                |
| 6        | The target takes (SURGE) holy damage whenever they take an action or fail a save.                                                                                                   |
| 8        | **Level 4** The target is P [average] slowed (save ends) whenever 1 or more judgment is added or removed from them, including the action that reached this level of judgment. |
| 10       | **Level 7** The target takes (SURGE)(SURGE) holy damage whenever they take any action or fail a save.                                                                                     |
| 12       | **Level 10**                                                                                                                                                                  |
|          | - The target is P [strong] slowed (save ends) whenever 1 or more judgment is added or removed from them, including the action that reached this level of judgment.            |
|          | - The target has a double bane on all power rolls.                                                                                                                            |

### KIT

You can use and gain the benefits of a kit. See the Kits chapter for more information.

### MY LIFE FOR YOURS

You can channel your will to mend your wounds or the wounds of your allies. You gain the following ability:

#### MY LIFE FOR YOURS

- **The first principle of the oath:** defend the righteous.

- **Keywords:** Magic, Ranged
- **Type:** Triggered
- **Distance:** Ranged 10
- **Target:** Self or 1 ally
- **Trigger:** The target starts their turn.

**Effect:** You spend a Recovery without regaining Stamina. Instead, the target regains Stamina equal to your Recovery value.

**Spend 1 Judgment:** You can end one effect on the target that has a duration of EoT or is ended by a saving throw, or a prone target can stand up.

**Spend 3 Judgment:** If a judged creature is within 10 squares of you and you end one effect on the target, the judged creature suffers P [average] the same effect removed from the target.

### 1ST-LEVEL DOMAIN FEATURE

You gain a domain feature from one of your domains, as shown on the 1st-Level Censor Domain Features table.

#### 1ST-LEVEL CENSOR DOMAIN FEATURES

| Domain     | Feature                       | Skill         |
|------------|-------------------------------|---------------|
| Creation   | Hands of the Maker            | Crafting      |
| Death      | Grave Speech                  | Lore          |
| Fate       | Oracular Visions              | Lore          |
| Knowledge  | Blessing of Comprehension     | Lore          |
| Life       | Revitalizing Ritual           | Exploration   |
| Love       | Blessing of Compassion        | Interpersonal |
| Nature     | Faithful Friend               | Exploration   |
| Protection | Protective Circle             | Exploration   |
| Storm      | Blessing of Fortunate Weather | Exploration   |
| Sun        | Inner Light                   | Lore          |
| Trickery   | Inspired Deception            | Intrigue      |
| War        | Sanctified Weapon             | Exploration   |

#### BLESSING OF COMPASSION

You exude a magic aura that can soothe those willing to socially engage with you. You gain an edge on any test made to
assist another creature with a test.

Additionally, when you are present at the start of a negotiation, the NPC’s patience increases by 1 (to a maximum of 5),
and the first test made to influence them gains an edge.

#### BLESSING OF COMPREHENSION

You can interpret diagrams and charts, even if you don’t understand the language associated with them. For the purpose
of making project rolls for crafting items (see Research and Crafting in future packets for more information), you are
considered fluent in all languages.

#### BLESSING OF FORTUNATE WEATHER

When you finish a respite, you can decide the weather conditions within 100 squares of you. If you are in the same area
as another conduit or creature using this or a similar feature, your overlapping areas cancel each other.

Those weather conditions follow you through any mundane outdoors locations where you travel until the end of your next
respite. Choose one of the following types of weather:

- **Clear:** You and your allies each gain an edge on tests that use the Search or Navigate skills.
- **Foggy:** You and your allies each gain an edge on tests that use the Hide skill.
- **Overcast:** You and your allies each gain an edge on tests that use the Endurance skill.
- **Precipitation:** When the ground is muddy or snowy, you and your allies each gain an edge on tests that use the
  Track skill.

#### FAITHFUL FRIEND

As an action, you conjure an animal spirit that takes the form of any animal you have seen. The incorporeal animal can’t
physically interact with the world, but they have a speed of 5 (fly). While you are within 10 squares of the spirit, you
can sense everything an animal of their form could sense, in addition to sensing your own surroundings.

You can dismiss the spirit at any time (no action required).

If the spirit takes any damage, it is dismissed and you take 1d10 psychic damage, which can’t be reduced in any way.

#### GRAVE SPEECH

You gain the following ability:

##### GRAVE SPEECH

- **You commune with the lingering soul of the recently dead.**

- **Keywords:** Magic
- **Type:** Maneuver
- **Distance:** Melee 1
- **Target:** Special


**Effect:** You can speak to the corpse or head of a creature who has died within the last 24 hours and who can speak
  a language you know. The target regards you as they would have in life, and you might need to make tests to influence
  them and convince them to speak with you. After 1 minute, the effect ends. You can’t use this ability on the same
  creature twice.

#### HANDS OF THE MAKER

You gain the following ability:

##### HANDS OF THE MAKER

- **Craft objects with the power of your mind!**

- **Keywords:** Magic
- **Type:** Maneuver
- **Distance:** Self
- **Target:** Self


**Effect:** You create a mundane object no larger than size 1S. You can maintain a number of objects created this way
  by you equal to your Presence score. You can destroy an object created this way by you with a thought, no matter how
  far you are from it (no action required).

#### INNER LIGHT

Each time you finish a respite, you can choose yourself or another character who is also ending a respite to gain the
benefit of a divine ritual. As you perform the ritual, you place a ray of morning light into the target’s soul, granting
a +1 bonus on saving throws. This benefit lasts until you complete another respite.

#### INSPIRED DECEPTION

The gods favor your thievery with magic. Whenever you make a test that uses a skill you have from the intrigue skill
group, you can use Presence on the test instead of another characteristic.

#### ORACULAR VISIONS

Your deity rewards you with hazy visions of things to come. Each time you earn 1 or more Victories, you earn an equal
number of Fate points. When you or a creature within 10 squares of you makes a test, you can spend 1 Fate point to allow
your god to share a vision of the outcome of the test with the creature making it, allowing them to adjust their plan
for better success. The creature gets an edge on the test. You lose all your Fate points when you finish a respite.

#### PROTECTIVE CIRCLE

You can spend 10 minutes working while uninterrupted to create a protective circle on the ground around a size 1 area of
land. The circle lasts for 24 hours or until you dismiss it (no action), and only creatures you designate at the time of
drawing the circle can enter or exit the area.

#### REVITALIZING RITUAL

Each time you finish a respite, you can choose yourself or another character who is also ending a respite to gain the
benefit of a divine ritual. When you perform the ritual, the target’s recovery value increases by an amount equal to
your level. This benefit lasts until you complete another respite.

#### SANCTIFIED WEAPON

As a respite action, you can bless a weapon. Any creature who wields the weapon gains a +1 bonus to damage with
abilities that use the weapon. This benefit lasts until you complete your next respite.

### KIT

You can use and gain the benefits of a kit. See the Kits chapter for more information.

### CENSOR ABILITIES

You use a blend of martial techniques and divine magic to attack your foes and defend your allies.

#### SIGNATURE ABILITY

Select one signature ability from the options below. Signature abilities can be used at will.

##### BACK, BLASPHEMER!

- **You channel the power of your god to repel unbelievers.**

- **Keywords:** Area, Magic, Weapon
- **Type:** Action
- **Distance:** 2 Cube within 1
- **Target:** All enemies

**Power Roll + Presence:**
- 11 or lower: 2 holy damage; push 1
- 12-16: 3 holy damage; push 2
- 17+: 4 holy damage; push 3

##### EVERY STEP… DEATH!

- **You show your foe a glimpse of their fate after death.**

- **Keywords:** Attack, Magic, Ranged
- **Type:** Action
- **Distance:** Ranged 10
- **Target:** 1 creature

**Power Roll + Presence:**
- 11 or lower: 2 psychic damage
- 12-16: 4 psychic damage
- 17+: 6 psychic damage


**Effect:** Until the end of the target’s next turn, they take (SURGE) psychic damage each time they willingly move closer
  to you.

##### HALT, MISCREANT!

- **"Your race is run!"**

- **Keywords:** Attack, Melee, Weapon
- **Type:** Action
- **Distance:** Melee 1
- **Target:** 1 creature or object

**Power Roll + Might:**
- 11 or lower: 2 holy damage; P [weak] slowed (save ends)
- 12-16: 3 holy damage; P [average] slowed (save ends)
- 17+: 5 holy damage; P [strong] slowed (save ends)

##### YOUR ALLIES CANNOT SAVE YOU!

- **"See how they abandon you!"**

- **Keywords:** Attack, Melee, Weapon
- **Type:** Action
- **Distance:** Melee 1
- **Target:** 1 creature or object

**Power Roll + Might:**
- 11 or lower: 2 holy damage
- 12-16: 4 holy damage
- 17+: 6 holy damage


**Effect:** All enemies adjacent to the target are pushed your Presence score away from the target.

#### HEROIC ABILITIES

You know abilities that cost judgment to use called heroic abilities.

##### 3-JUDGMENT ABILITIES

Choose one heroic ability from the following options.

###### BEHOLD, A SHIELD OF FAITH! (3 JUDGMENT)

- **"Allow me to intercede."**

- **Keywords:** Attack, Melee, Weapon
- **Type:** Action
- **Distance:** Melee 1
- **Target:** 1 creature or object

**Power Roll + Might:**
- 11 or lower: 3 holy damage
- 12-16: 6 holy damage
- 17+: 9 holy damage


**Effect:** Until the beginning of your next turn, you and all adjacent allies have (SHIELD) against the target’s attacks.

###### DRIVING ASSAULT (3 JUDGMENT)

- **You focus on pushing your enemy back with your weapon and use your faith to stay close.**

- **Keywords:** Attack, Melee, Weapon
- **Type:** Action
- **Distance:** Melee 1
- **Target:** 1 creature or object

**Power Roll + Might:**
- 11 or lower: 6 damage; push 1
- 12-16: 6 damage; push 3
- 17+: 9 damage; push 5


**Effect:** You can shift your speed as long as you end that shift within distance of the target.

###### THE GODS PUNISH AND DEFEND (3 JUDGMENT)

- **You channel holy energy to smite a foe and to heal an ally.**

- **Keywords:** Attack, Melee, Weapon
- **Type:** Action
- **Distance:** Melee 1
- **Target:** 1 creature or object

**Power Roll + Might:**
- 11 or lower: 5 holy damage
- 12-16: 8 holy damage
- 17+: 11 holy damage


**Effect:** Spend a Recovery and you or an ally within 10 squares of you regain Stamina equal to your Recovery value.

###### REPENT! (3 JUDGMENT)

- **You conjure memories of their sins.**

- **Keywords:** Attack, Magic, Ranged
- **Type:** Action
- **Distance:** Ranged 10
- **Target:** 1 creature

**Power Roll + Might:**
- 11 or lower: 3 holy damage; I [weak] dazed (save ends)
- 12-16: 6 holy damage; I [average] dazed (save ends)
- 17+: 9 holy damage; I [strong] dazed (save ends)

##### 5-JUDGMENT ABILITIES

Choose one heroic ability from the following options.

###### ARREST (5 JUDGMENT)

- **"I got you, you son of a bitch."**

- **Keywords:** Attack, Magic, Weapon
- **Type:** Action
- **Distance:** Melee 1
- **Target:** 1 judged creature

**Power Roll + Might:**
- 11 or lower: 5 holy damage; grabbed
- 12-16: 9 holy damage; grabbed
- 17+: 12 holy damage; grabbed


**Effect:** If the target makes an attack while grabbed by you, they take (SURGE) holy damage. When the target makes an
  attack while grabbed by you, you can spend 3 judgment to change the target of the attack to another target within the
  attack’s distance as a free triggered action.

###### BEHOLD THE FACE OF EVIL! (5 JUDGMENT)

- **You show your enemies a vision of the true nature of one of their companions.**

- **Keywords:** Attack, Magic, Weapon
- **Type:** Action
- **Distance:** Melee 1 or Ranged 5
- **Target:** 1 judged creature

**Power Roll + Might:**
- 11 or lower: 3 holy damage; each enemy within 2 of the target is P [weak] frightened (save ends)
- 12-16: 5 holy damage; each enemy within 2 of the target is P [weak] frightened (save ends)
- 17+: 8 holy damage; each enemy within 2 of the target is P [weak] frightened (save ends)


**Effect:** Each enemy frightened by this ability is pushed 2 away from the target and takes (SURGE) psychic damage.

###### CENSORED (5 JUDGMENT)

- **Judged and sentenced.**

- **Keywords:** Attack, Melee, Weapon
- **Type:** Action
- **Distance:** Melee 1
- **Target:** 1 judged creature

**Power Roll + Might:**
- 11 or lower: 2 holy damage
- 12-16: 3 holy damage
- 17+: 5 holy damage


**Effect:** If a non-boss or non-solo creature is winded after damage is resolved, they die.

###### PURIFYING FIRE (5 JUDGMENT)

- **The gods judge, fire cleanses.**

- **Keywords:** Attack, Magic, Weapon
- **Type:** Action
- **Distance:** Melee 1 or Ranged 5
- **Target:** 1 judged creature

**Power Roll + Might:**
- 11 or lower: 5 holy damage; M [weak] fire weakness 3 (save ends)
- 12-16: 9 holy damage; M [average] fire weakness 5 (save ends)
- 17+: 12 holy damage; M [strong] fire weakness 7 (save ends)


**Effect:** While the target has fire weakness from this ability, you can choose to do fire damage instead of holy
  damage to them when you use an ability.

## 2ND-LEVEL FEATURES

As a 2nd-level censor, you gain the following features:

### EXTRA SHIELD

Your (SHIELD) limit increases by 1, for a maximum of (SHIELD)(SHIELD)(SHIELD)(SHIELD).

### PERK

You gain an interpersonal, lore, or supernatural perk of your choice. See Perks for more information.

### 2ND-LEVEL ORDER FEATURES

Your order determines your features.

| Order    | Features                             |
|----------|--------------------------------------|
| Exorcist | Saint’s Vigilance, A Sense For Truth |
| Oracle   | It Was Foretold, Judge of Character  |
| Paragon  | Lead by Example, Stalwart Example    |

#### IT WAS FORETOLD

You can take one action before any encounter begins, even if you are surprised, or make an additional test for a montage
test before the montage begins.

#### JUDGE OF CHARACTER

You can use Presence instead of Intuition for Intuition tests.

#### LEAD BY EXAMPLE

Allies gain flanking benefits against targets you are adjacent to and have an edge on tests made to aid other creatures
with their tests.

#### SAINT’S VIGILANCE

Enemies within 5 squares of you can’t hide from you. Outside of combat, you automatically reveal hidden creatures of
your level or lower within 5 squares of you.

#### A SENSE FOR TRUTH

You automatically know when a creature is lying, but don’t necessarily know the actual truth. You have a double edge on
tests to detect hidden motives, such as when using the Read Person skill.

#### STALWART EXAMPLE

You have an edge on tests that use interpersonal skills.

### 2ND-LEVEL ORDER ABILITY

Your specialization grants your choice of one of two abilities.

#### 2ND-LEVEL EXORCIST ABILITIES

Choose one of the following abilities.

##### IT IS JUSTICE YOU FEAR (5 JUDGMENT)

- **I am but a vessel. Your own deeds weigh upon you.**

- **Keywords:** Attack, Magic, Ranged
- **Type:** Action
- **Distance:** Ranged 10
- **Target:** 1 judged creature

**Power Roll + Might:**
- 11 or lower: 5 holy damage; P [weak] frightened (save ends)
- 12-16: 9 holy damage; P [average] frightened (save ends)
- 17+: 12 holy damage; P [strong] frightened (save ends)


**Effect:** If the target is already frightened of you or another creature when you use this ability, they take (SURGE)(SURGE)
  psychic damage.

##### REVELATOR (5 JUDGMENT)

- **You channel holy energy to harm the unbelievers and reveal those hidden from your judgment.**

- **Keywords:** Area, Magic
- **Type:** Maneuver
- **Distance:** 3 Burst
- **Target:** All enemies


**Effect:** Each target takes (SURGE) holy damage. Any hidden enemies are automatically revealed and cannot hide again until
  the beginning of your next turn.

#### 2ND-LEVEL ORACLE ABILITIES

Choose one of the following abilities.

##### PRESCIENT GRACE (5 JUDGMENT)

- **"Hah! I see your plan. It will not work!"**

- **Keywords:** Magic, Ranged
- **Type:** Triggered
- **Distance:** Ranged 10
- **Target:** Self or 1 ally
- **Trigger:** An enemy within 10 starts their turn.


**Effect:** You spend a Recovery without regaining Stamina. Instead, the target regains Stamina equal to your Recovery
  value. The target takes their turn immediately before the triggering enemy.

##### WITH MY BLESSING (5 JUDGMENT)

- **A word in prayer, and the gods show the way.**

- **Keywords:** Magic, Ranged
- **Type:** Action
- **Distance:** Ranged 10
- **Target:** Self or 1 ally


**Effect:** The target can make a signature or heroic attack with a double edge as a free triggered action. They must
  still pay any Heroic Resources required.

#### 2ND-LEVEL PARAGON ABILITIES

Choose one of the following abilities.

##### BLESSING OF THE FAITHFUL (5 JUDGMENT)

- **The gods reward your faith.**

- **Keywords:** Area, Magic
- **Type:** Maneuver
- **Distance:** 3 Aura
- **Target:** Self and all allies


**Effect:** Until the end of the encounter or you become dying, each target in the aura gains (SURGE) on attacks.

##### SENTENCED (5 JUDGMENT)

- **I am the law!**

- **Keywords:** Attack, Magic, Weapon
- **Type:** Action
- **Distance:** Melee 1
- **Target:** 1 creature

**Power Roll + Presence:**
- 11 or lower: 5 damage; P [weak] restrained (save ends)
- 12-16: 9 damage; P [average] restrained (save ends)
- 17+: 12 damage; P [strong] restrained (save ends)


**Effect:** Your forced movement abilities can still move the target while they are restrained this way.

## 3RD-LEVEL FEATURES

As a 3rd-level censor, you gain the following features.

### LOOK ON MY WORK AND DESPAIR

Whenever you reduce a judged creature to 0 Stamina and judge a new target as a free triggered action, that new target is
P [average] frightened (save ends) of you. If the target is already frightened of you, they take (SURGE)(SURGE) psychic damage.

### 7-JUDGMENT ABILITIES

Choose one heroic ability from the following options.

#### EDICT OF DISRUPTIVE ISOLATION (7 JUDGMENT)

- **Gather not together in secret to conspire.**

- **Keywords:** –
- **Type:** Maneuver
- **Distance:** 2 Aura
- **Target:** All enemies


**Effect:** Until the end of the encounter or you are dying, when you begin your turn, each target takes (SURGE) holy damage
  and (SURGE) additional holy damage if they are adjacent to another enemy. If a target is judged by you, they take an
  additional 2d6 holy damage if they are adjacent to another enemy.

#### EDICT OF PERFECT ORDER (7 JUDGMENT)

- **Use not the fell arts!**

- **Keywords:** –
- **Type:** Maneuver
- **Distance:** 2 Aura
- **Target:** All enemies


**Effect:** Until the end of the encounter or you are dying, when a target uses an ability with the Magic keyword,
  they take (SURGE)(SURGE) holy damage. If a target is judged by you, they take an additional 2d6 holy damage.

#### EDICT OF PURIFYING PACIFISM (7 JUDGMENT)

- **Shed not the blood of innocents!**

- **Keywords:** –
- **Type:** Maneuver
- **Distance:** 2 Aura
- **Target:** All enemies


**Effect:** Until the end of the encounter or you are dying, when a target uses an ability with the Weapon keyword,
  they take (SURGE)(SURGE) holy damage. If a target is judged by you, they take an additional 2d6 holy damage.

#### EDICT OF STILLNESS (7 JUDGMENT)

- **Flee not from just punishment.**

- **Keywords:** –
- **Type:** Maneuver
- **Distance:** 2 Aura
- **Target:** All enemies


**Effect:** Until the end of the encounter or you are dying, when a target is force moved they take (SURGE) holy damage. If
  the target moves on their own, they take (SURGE)(SURGE) holy damage. If a target is judged by you, they take an additional 1d6
  holy damage when they move on their own.

# CONDUIT

The power of the gods flows through you! As a vessel for divine magic, you don’t just keep your allies in the fight. You
make those allies more effective, even as you rain divine energy down upon your foes. While the deity or saint you serve
might have other faithful and clergy, you are special among worshippers, receiving your abilities from the highest
source.

As a conduit, you heal and buff your allies, and debuff your foes while smiting them with divine magic. The spark of
divinity within you shines, aweing your enemies and granting you increased empathy.

## BASICS

**Starting Characteristics:** You start with an Intuition score of 2, and can choose one of the following arrays for
your other characteristics scores:

- 2, 2, −1, −1
- 2, 1, 1, −1
- 2, 1, 0, 0
- 1, 1, 1, 0

**Weak Potency:** Intuition score − 1  
**Average Potency:** Intuition score  
**Strong Potency:** Intuition score + 1

**Starting Stamina at 1st Level:** 18  
**Stamina Gained at 2nd and Higher Levels:** 9  
**Recoveries:** 8

**Skills:** Choose any two skills from the interpersonal or lore skill groups.

### CONDUIT ADVANCEMENT

| Level | Features                                       | Abilities              | Domain Abilities |
|-------|------------------------------------------------|------------------------|------------------|
| 1st   | Deity and Domains, Piety, Domain Feature,      | Two signature, 3, 5    | 5                |
|       | Healing Grace, Ray of Wrath, Triggered Action, |                        |                  |
|       | Prayer, Conduit Ward, Conduit Abilities        |                        |                  |
| 2nd   | Domain Feature, The Lists of Heaven, Perk,     | Two signature, 3, 5    | 5                |
|       | Domain Ability                                 |                        |                  |
| 3rd   | Minor Miracle, 7-Piety Ability                 | Two signature, 3, 5, 7 | 5                |

## 1ST-LEVEL FEATURES

As a conduit, you gain the following features.

### DEITY AND DOMAINS

Choose a god or saint who you revere from the Conduit Deities table, or ask your Director about the deities in your
campaign world. With the Director’s permission, you can also create your own deity, and can choose four domains to be
part of their portfolio.

After choosing your deity, pick two domains from their portfolio. Your choice of domains determines many of the features
you’ll gain from this class.

> *Playtest note: More gods and saints are coming, along with their descriptions.*

#### CONDUIT DEITIES

| Deity   | Domains                         |
|---------|---------------------------------|
| Adun    | Love, Protection, Storm, War    |
| Cavall  | Knowledge, Protection, Sun, War |
| Cyrvis  | Fate, Death, Nature, Trickery   |
| Malus   | Creation, Fate, Life, Knowledge |
| Salorna | Death, Nature, Storm, Sun       |
| Viras   | Creation, Life, Love, Trickery  |

### PIETY

Your deity grants you a Heroic Resource called piety to fuel your abilities. You use piety to heal and empower your
allies, and to unleash your deity’s power upon your foes.

#### PIETY IN COMBAT

When a combat encounter (or other stressful situation tracked in rounds as determined by the Director) begins, you gain
piety equal to your Victories. At the start of each of your turns during combat, you gain 1d3 piety.

Additionally, you can gain more piety by praying to the gods when you roll to gain piety, but beware. Praying to the
gods can easily draw their ire! They hate to be annoyed. When you roll to gain piety, you can pray to the gods and gain
the additional effects (no action required):

- If your piety roll is a 1, you gain 1 additional piety but anger the gods! You take 1d6 + your level psychic damage,
  which can’t be reduced in any way.
- If your piety roll is a 2, you gain 1 additional piety.
- If your piety roll is a 3, you gain 2 additional piety and you can activate a domain effect of your choice.

Your piety disappears at the end of the encounter.

#### PIETY OUTSIDE OF COMBAT

Though you can’t gain piety outside of combat, you can use your heroic abilities and effects that cost piety without
spending it. Whenever you use an ability or effect that costs piety outside of combat, you can’t use that same ability
or effect again outside of combat until you gain at least 1 Victory or finish a Respite.

If you use an ability that lets you spend unlimited piety on its effect, such as Healing Grace, out of combat, you can
use it...

it as if you had spent an amount of piety on it equal to your Victories.

#### DOMAIN EFFECTS

Whenever you get a domain effect by praying for piety, you can choose one of your domain’s effects to immediately take
effect.

##### CREATION DOMAIN EFFECT

You create a **5 + Intuition score** wall of stone within **10 squares** of you.

##### DEATH DOMAIN EFFECT

Two enemies of your choice within **10 squares** of you take **2d6** magic corruption damage.

##### FATE DOMAIN EFFECT

Choose another creature you have line of effect to. That creature automatically gets a **tier 1** or **tier 3** result (
your choice) on their next power roll.

##### KNOWLEDGE DOMAIN EFFECT

Choose up to **three allies** within **10 squares** of you. Each ally has an **edge** on the next ability they use
before the end of their next turn.

##### LIFE DOMAIN EFFECT

You or an ally within **10 squares** of you can spend **2 Recoveries**, end any effects on them that have a duration of
**EoT** or are ended by a saving throw, and can stand up if they are prone. Alternatively, you and an ally within **10
squares** of you gain temporary Stamina equal to **5 × your Intuition score**.

##### LOVE DOMAIN EFFECT

Each ally within **10 squares** of you gains temporary Stamina equal to **2 × your Intuition score**.

##### NATURE DOMAIN EFFECT

Vines whip up from the floor or ground around a number of creatures of your choice within **10 squares** of you equal to
your Intuition score. You can slide each creature up to a number of squares equal to your Intuition score.

##### PROTECTION DOMAIN EFFECT

An ally of your choice within **10 squares** of you gains **resistance to all damage**, which lasts until the end of
your next turn.

##### STORM DOMAIN EFFECT

Each enemy in a **3-cube area** within **10 squares** of you takes **2d6** magic lightning damage.

##### SUN DOMAIN EFFECT

An enemy of your choice within **10 squares** of you takes **3d6** magic fire damage.

##### TRICKERY DOMAIN EFFECT

Choose a creature within **10 squares** of you. You can slide that creature a number of squares equal to **5 + your
conduit level**. If you choose a willing ally, this movement can ignore their stability.

##### WAR DOMAIN EFFECT

Your abilities gain **additional damage** until the end of your turn.

### 1ST-LEVEL DOMAIN FEATURE

You gain a domain feature from one of your domains, as shown on the 1st-Level Conduit Domain Features table.
Additionally, you gain a skill from the chosen domain, selected from the skill group indicated on the table.

#### 1ST-LEVEL CONDUIT DOMAIN FEATURES

| Domain     | Feature                       | Skill         |
|------------|-------------------------------|---------------|
| Creation   | Hands of the Maker            | Crafting      |
| Death      | Grave Speech                  | Lore          |
| Fate       | Oracular Visions              | Lore          |
| Knowledge  | Blessing of Comprehension     | Lore          |
| Life       | Revitalizing Ritual           | Exploration   |
| Love       | Blessing of Compassion        | Interpersonal |
| Nature     | Faithful Friend               | Exploration   |
| Protection | Protective Circle             | Exploration   |
| Storm      | Blessing of Fortunate Weather | Exploration   |
| Sun        | Inner Light                   | Lore          |
| Trickery   | Inspired Deception            | Intrigue      |
| War        | Sanctified Weapon             | Exploration   |

#### BLESSING OF COMPASSION

You exude a magic aura that can soothe those willing to socially engage with you. You gain an **edge** on any test made
to assist another creature with a test. Additionally, when you are present at the start of a negotiation, the NPC’s
patience increases by 1 (to a maximum of 5), and the first test made to influence them gains an edge.

#### BLESSING OF FORTUNATE WEATHER

When you finish a respite, you can decide the weather conditions within **100 squares** of you. If you are in the same
area as another conduit or creature using this or a similar feature, your overlapping areas cancel each other. Those
weather conditions follow you through any mundane outdoors locations where you travel until the end of your next
respite.

Choose one of the following types of weather:

- **Clear:** You and your allies each gain an edge on tests that use the **Search** or **Navigate** skills.
- **Foggy:** You and your allies each gain an edge on tests that use the **Hide** skill.
- **Overcast:** You and your allies each gain an edge on tests that use the **Endurance** skill.
- **Precipitation:** When the ground is muddy or snowy, you and your allies each gain an edge on tests that use the *
  *Track** skill.

#### BLESSING OF COMPREHENSION

You can interpret diagrams and charts, even if you don’t understand the language associated with them. For the purpose
of making project rolls for crafting items (see Research and Crafting in future packets for more information), you are
considered fluent in all languages.

#### FAITHFUL FRIEND

As an action, you conjure an animal spirit that takes the form of any animal you have seen. The incorporeal animal can’t
physically interact with the world, but they have a speed of **5 (fly)**. While you are within **10 squares** of the
spirit, you can sense everything an animal of their form could sense, in addition to sensing your own surroundings. You
can dismiss the spirit at any time (no action required). If the spirit takes any damage, it is dismissed and you take *
*1d10 psychic damage**, which can’t be reduced in any way.

#### GRAVE SPEECH

You gain the following ability:

##### GRAVE SPEECH

You commune with the lingering soul of the recently dead.

- **Keywords:** Magic
- **Type:** Maneuver
- **Distance:** Melee 1
- **Target:** Special

**Effect:** You can speak to the corpse or head of a creature who has died within the last **24 hours** and who can
  speak a language you know. The target regards you as they would have in life, and you might need to make tests to
  influence them and convince them to speak with you. After **1 minute**, the effect ends. You can’t use this ability on
  the same creature twice.

#### HANDS OF THE MAKER

You gain the following ability:

##### HANDS OF THE MAKER

Craft objects with the power of your mind!

- **Keywords:** Magic
- **Type:** Maneuver
- **Distance:** Self
- **Target:** Self

**Effect:** You create a mundane object no larger than **size 1S**. You can maintain a number of objects created this
  way by you equal to your **Intuition score**. You can destroy an object created this way by you with a thought, no
  matter how far you are from it (no action required).

#### INNER LIGHT

Each time you finish a respite, you can choose yourself or another character who is also ending a respite to gain the
benefit of a divine ritual. As you perform the ritual, you place a ray of morning light into the target’s soul, granting
a **+1 bonus on saving throws**. This benefit lasts until you complete another respite.

#### INSPIRED DECEPTION

The gods favor your thievery with magic. Whenever you make a test that uses a skill you have from the **intrigue skill
group**, you can use **Intuition** on the test instead of another characteristic.

#### ORACULAR VISIONS

Your deity rewards you with hazy visions of things to come. Each time you earn **1 or more Victories**, you earn an
equal number of **Fate points**. When you or a creature within **10 squares** of you makes a test, you can spend **1
Fate point** to allow your god to share a vision of the outcome of the test with the creature making it, allowing them
to adjust their plan for better success. The creature gets an **edge** on the test. You lose all your Fate points when
you finish a respite.

#### PROTECTIVE CIRCLE

You can spend **10 minutes** working while uninterrupted to create a protective circle on the ground around a **size 1
area** of land. The circle lasts for **24 hours** or until you dismiss it (no action) and only creatures you designate
at the time of drawing the circle can enter or exit the area.

#### REVITALIZING RITUAL

Each time you finish a respite, you can choose yourself or another character who is also ending a respite to gain the
benefit of a divine ritual. When you perform the ritual, the target’s recovery value increases by an amount equal to
your **level**. This benefit lasts until you complete another respite.

#### SANCTIFIED WEAPON

As a respite action, you can bless a weapon. Any creature who wields the weapon gains a **+1 bonus to damage** with
abilities that use the weapon. This benefit lasts until you complete your next respite.

### HEALING GRACE

You gain the following ability, which you can use once on your turn:

#### HEALING GRACE

Your divine energy restores the righteous.

- **Keywords:** Magic, Ranged
- **Type:** Maneuver
- **Distance:** Ranged 10
- **Target:** Self or 1 ally

**Effect:** The target can spend **1 Recovery**.

- **Spend Piety:** For each piety spent, you can choose one of the following enhancements:
    - You can target one additional ally within distance.
    - You can end one effect on a target that is ended by a saving throw or that ends at the end of their turn.
    - A prone target can stand up.
    - A target can spend **1 additional Recovery**.

### RAY OF WRATH

You gain the following ability, which can be used as a ranged free strike:

#### RAY OF WRATH

You unleash a blast of holy light upon your foe.

- **Keywords:** Attack, Magic, Ranged
- **Type:** Action
- **Distance:** Ranged 10
- **Target:** 1 creature or object

**Power Roll + Intuition:**

- **11 or lower:** 2 damage
- **12–16:** 4 damage
- **17+:** 6 damage


**Effect:** The damage this ability deals can be holy damage.

### TRIGGERED ACTION

Choose one of the following triggered actions:

#### WORD OF GUIDANCE

You invigorate an attacking ally with divine energy.

- **Keywords:** Magic, Ranged
- **Type:** Triggered
- **Distance:** Ranged 10
- **Target:** 1 ally
- **Trigger:** The target deals damage to another creature or object.

**Effect:** The damage gains **+1**. You gain **1 piety**.

**Spend 1 Piety:** The damage gains **+2**, and you gain no piety instead.

#### WORD OF JUDGEMENT

Your holy word saps an attacking enemy’s strength.

- **Keywords:** Magic, Ranged
- **Type:** Triggered
- **Distance:** Ranged 10
- **Target:** 1 ally
- **Trigger:** The target takes damage.

**Effect:** The target gains **+2** against the damage. You gain **1 piety**.

**Spend 1 Piety:** The target gains **+4** against the damage, and you gain no piety instead.

### PRAYER

Your god answers a prayer that enhances your statistics. You can choose one of the following prayers. You can change
your prayer along with your ward (see Conduit Ward) by praying to your god as a respite activity.

#### PRAYER OF DESTRUCTION

Your god infuses wrath within your being. When you deal damage with a Magic ability, the damage dealt increases by **1
**.

#### PRAYER OF DISTANCE

Your god blesses you with the ability to stretch your divine magic further. The ranged distance of your abilities with
the **Ranged** and **Magic** keywords increases by **5**.

#### PRAYER OF SPEED

Your god blesses your flesh and infuses it with divine quickness. Your speed increases by **1**, and when you take the *
*Disengage** move action, you can shift **1 extra square**.

#### PRAYER OF SOLDIER’S SKILL

Your god gives your mind the training of a soldier. You can wear medium armor and wield light weapons effectively, even
though you don’t have a kit. While you wear medium armor, you gain a **+6 bonus to Stamina**. While you wield a light
weapon, you deal **1 extra damage** with abilities that have the **Weapon** keyword, including free strikes. You can use
medium armor and light weapon treasures. If you have a kit, you can’t take this prayer.

#### PRAYER OF STEEL

Your god fills your body with the light of creation, making you harder to hurt and move. Your Stamina increases by **3
**, and stability increases by **1**.

### CONDUIT WARD

Your god gives you a ward that protects you. You can choose one of the following wards. You can change your ward along
with your prayer (see Prayer) by praying to your god as a respite activity.

#### BASTION WARD

Your god gives you a holy countenance that protects you at all times. You gain a **+1 bonus to saving throws**.

#### QUICKNESS WARD

The gods imbue a divine wind within you. When an adjacent creature deals damage to you, you can shift a number of
squares equal to your **Intuition score** after the damage is dealt.

#### SANCTUARY WARD

After one aggression from a foe, the gods take notice and protect you. When another creature damages you with an attack,
they can’t use another attack against you until you harm them or one of their allies, or until the end of their next
turn.

#### SPIRIT WARD

Invisible spirits surround you, flashing into existence briefly if you are harmed. When an adjacent creature deals
damage to you, they take **1d6** magic corruption damage.

### CONDUIT ABILITIES

Your training and faith let you specialize in magic that buffs your allies, debuffs your foes, and lets you hold your
own in combat even while aiding your friends.

#### SIGNATURE ABILITIES

Select two signature abilities from the options below. Signature abilities can be used at will.

##### BLESSED LIGHT

Burning radiance falls upon your foe, outlining them with a holy glow.

- **Keywords:** Attack, Magic, Ranged
- **Type:** Action
- **Distance:** Ranged 10
- **Target:** 1 creature or object

**Power Roll + Intuition:**

- **11 or lower:** 2 holy damage; the next attack against the target has **+1**
- **12-16:** 4 holy damage; the next attack against the target has **+2**
- **17+:** 6 holy damage; the next attack against the target has **+3**

##### DRAIN

You drain the energy from your target and revitalize yourself or an ally.

- **Keywords:** Attack, Magic, Melee
- **Type:** Action
- **Distance:** Melee 1
- **Target:** 1 creature

**Power Roll + Intuition:**

- **11 or lower:** 2 corruption damage
- **12–16:** 3 corruption damage
- **17+:** 5 corruption damage


**Effect:** You or an ally within distance can spend a Recovery.

##### HOLY LASH

A tendril of divine energy shoots forth to draw in your foe.

- **Keywords:** Attack, Magic, Ranged
- **Type:** Action
- **Distance:** Ranged 10
- **Target:** 1 creature or object

**Power Roll + Intuition:**

- **11 or lower:** 2 holy damage; pull 2
- **12–16:** 4 holy damage; pull 3
- **17+:** 6 holy damage; pull 4

##### LIGHTFALL

A rain of holy light scours your enemies and repositions your allies.

- **Keywords:** Area, Magic
- **Type:** Action
- **Distance:** 2 burst
- **Target:** All enemies

**Power Roll + Intuition:**

- **11 or lower:** 1 holy damage
- **12–16:** 2 holy damage
- **17+:** 3 holy damage


**Effect:** You can teleport each ally in the area and yourself if you’re in the area to any unoccupied space within
  the area.

##### SACRIFICIAL OFFER

Divine magic tears at your foe and defends a nearby friend.

- **Keywords:** Attack, Magic, Ranged
- **Type:** Action
- **Distance:** Ranged 10
- **Target:** 1 creature

**Power Roll + Intuition:**

- **11 or lower:** 2 corruption damage
- **12–16:** 3 corruption damage
- **17+:** 4 corruption damage


**Effect:** You or an ally within distance gains **+2** against the next attack until the start of your next turn.

##### STAGGERING CURSE

A blast of judgment disorients your foe.

- **Keywords:** Attack, Magic, Melee
- **Type:** Action
- **Distance:** Melee 1
- **Target:** 1 creature or object

**Power Roll + Intuition:**

- **11 or lower:** 2 holy damage; slide 1
- **12–16:** 4 holy damage; slide 2
- **17+:** 6 holy damage; slide 3

##### WARRIOR’S PRAYER

You utter a quick prayer that projects aggressive divine energy around a friend engaged in melee combat.

- **Keywords:** Attack, Magic, Ranged
- **Type:** Action
- **Distance:** Ranged 10
- **Target:** 1 creature

**Power Roll + Intuition:**

- **11 or lower:** 2 holy damage
- **12–16:** 5 holy damage
- **17+:** 7 holy damage


**Effect:** You or an ally within distance gains Temporary Stamina equal to your **Intuition score**. This Temporary
  Stamina disappears at the end of the encounter.

##### WITHER

A bolt of holy energy saps the life from a foe.

- **Keywords:** Attack, Magic, Ranged
- **Type:** Action
- **Distance:** Ranged 10
- **Target:** 1 creature or object

**Power Roll + Intuition:**

- **11 or lower:** 2 corruption damage; [weak] the target takes a bane on their next power roll
- **12–16:** 4 corruption damage; [average] the target takes a bane on their next power roll
- **17+:** 6 corruption damage; [strong] the target takes a bane on their next power roll

#### HEROIC ABILITIES

You make use of a number of heroic abilities, all of which channel piety to empower them.

##### 3-PIETY ABILITIES

Choose one heroic ability from the following options, each of which costs 3 piety to use.

###### CALL THE THUNDER DOWN (3 PIETY)

You ask your saint for thunder and your prayer is answered.

- **Keywords:** Area, Magic, Ranged
- **Type:** Action
- **Distance:** 3 cube within 10
- **Target:** All enemies

**Power Roll + Intuition:**

- **11 or lower:** 2 sonic damage; push 1
- **12–16:** 3 sonic damage; push 2
- **17+:** 5 sonic damage; push 3


**Effect:** You can also push each willing ally in the area, and their stability doesn’t count against this forced
  movement.

###### FONT OF WRATH (3 PIETY)

A brilliant column of holy light appears on the battlefield, striking out at nearby enemies.

- **Keywords:** Magic, Ranged
- **Type:** Action
- **Distance:** Ranged 10
- **Target:** Special


**Effect:** You summon a spirit of **size 2** who can’t be harmed, and who appears in an unoccupied space within
  distance. The spirit lasts until the end of your next turn. You and your allies can move through the spirit’s space,
  but enemies can’t. The first time on a turn that an enemy moves within **2 squares** of the spirit or starts their
  turn there, they take **2d6** holy damage.

###### JUDGMENT’S HAMMER (3 PIETY)

Your divine fury is a hammer that crashes down upon the unrighteous.

- **Keywords:** Attack, Magic, Ranged
- **Type:** Action
- **Distance:** Ranged 10
- **Target:** 1 creature or object

**Power Roll + Intuition:**

- **11 or lower:** 3 holy damage; [weak] prone
- **12–16:** 6 holy damage; [average] prone
- **17+:** 9 holy damage; [strong] prone and can’t stand (save ends)

###### VIOLENCE WILL NOT AID THEE (3 PIETY)

A brilliant column of holy light appears on the battlefield, striking out at nearby enemies.

- **Keywords:** Attack, Magic, Ranged
- **Type:** Action
- **Distance:** Ranged 10
- **Target:** 1 creature

**Power Roll + Intuition:**

- **11 or lower:** 3 lightning damage
- **12–16:** 6 lightning damage
- **17+:** 9 lightning damage


**Effect:** If the target deals damage to another creature, the target of this ability takes another **1d10 lightning
  damage** (save ends).

#### 5-PIETY ABILITIES

Choose one heroic ability from the following options, each of which costs 5 piety to use.

###### CORRUPTION’S CURSE (5 PIETY)

Cursed by you, your enemy takes more damage from your allies.

- **Keywords:** Attack, Magic, Ranged
- **Type:** Action
- **Distance:** Ranged 10
- **Target:** 1 creature or object

**Power Roll + Intuition:**

- **11 or lower:** 3 corruption damage; [weak] when the target takes damage from an ability, the ability deals **+1** (
  save ends)
- **12–16:** 6 corruption damage; [average] when the target takes damage from an ability, the ability deals **+2** (save
  ends)
- **17+:** 9 corruption damage; [strong] when the target takes damage from an ability, the ability deals **+3** (save
  ends)

###### CURSE OF TERROR (5 PIETY)

Fear of divine judgment overwhelms your foe.

- **Keywords:** Attack, Magic, Ranged
- **Type:** Action
- **Distance:** Ranged 10
- **Target:** 1 creature

**Power Roll + Intuition:**

- **11 or lower:** 6 holy damage; [weak] frightened (save ends)
- **12–16:** 9 holy damage; [average] frightened (save ends)
- **17+:** 13 holy damage; [strong] frightened (save ends)

###### FAITH IS OUR ARMOR (5 PIETY)

The heroes' armor glows with golden light, granting divine protection.

- **Keywords:** Magic, Ranged
- **Type:** Maneuver
- **Distance:** Self or Ranged 10
- **Target:** 3 allies, including self

**Power Roll + Intuition:**

- **11 or lower:** Gain 5 temporary Stamina
- **12–16:** Gain 10 temporary Stamina
- **17+:** Gain 15 temporary Stamina


**Effect:** This temporary Stamina disappears at the end of the encounter.

###### SERMON OF GRACE (5 PIETY)

You inspire your allies with tales of your saint's great deeds.

- **Keywords:** Area, Magic
- **Type:** Action
- **Distance:** 3 burst
- **Target:** All allies


**Effect:** Each target can spend a Recovery, end one effect that is ended by a saving throw or that ends at the end
  of their turn, or use the Stand Up maneuver as a free triggered action.

## 2ND-LEVEL FEATURES

As a 2nd-level conduit, you gain the following features.

### EXTRA SHIELD

Your **piety shield** limit increases by **1**, for a maximum of **3 shields**.

### THE LISTS OF HEAVEN

Your patron is aware of your growing influence. It's easier to get their attention and power for healing your allies.
Whenever you allow another creature to spend a Recovery, you can also spend a Recovery.

### 2ND-LEVEL DOMAIN FEATURES

You gain the 1st-level domain feature and skill of the domain you didn’t select (see 1st-Level Domain Features).

### PERK

You gain a **crafting**, **lore**, or **supernatural** perk of your choice. See **Perks** for more information.

### 2ND-LEVEL DOMAIN ABILITIES

Choose one of your domains. You gain an ability from it as shown on the 2nd-Level Conduit Domain Abilities table.

#### 2ND-LEVEL CONDUIT DOMAIN ABILITIES

| Domain     | Feature                      |
|------------|------------------------------|
| Creation   | Statue of Power              |
| Death      | Reap                         |
| Fate       | Blessing of Fate and Destiny |
| Knowledge  | The Gods Command, You Obey   |
| Life       | Wellspring of Grace          |
| Love       | Our Hearts, Your Strength    |
| Nature     | Nature Judges Thee           |
| Protection | Sacred Bond                  |
| Storm      | Saint’s Tempest              |
| Sun        | Morning Light                |
| Trickery   | Divine Comedy                |
| War        | Blessing of Insight          |

#### BLESSING OF FATE AND DESTINY (5 PIETY)

Your enemies suffer their fate; your allies, their destiny!

- **Keywords:** Area, Magic
- **Type:** Action
- **Distance:** 2 aura
- **Target:** Special


**Effect:** Choose one effect that lasts until the end of the encounter or you start dying:
    - Whenever you or an ally in the aura makes a power roll, they can roll three dice and choose which two to use.
    - Whenever an enemy in the aura makes a power roll, they must roll three dice and use the lowest two.

#### BLESSING OF INSIGHT (5 PIETY)

The gods grant insight revealing where best to strike your enemies.

- **Keywords:** Aura, Magic
- **Type:** Maneuver
- **Distance:** Self and 3 Aura
- **Target:** Self and all allies


**Effect:** Until the end of the encounter or you start dying, each target in the aura gains **+1** on their
  abilities.

#### DIVINE COMEDY (5 PIETY)

You may swap places.

- **Keywords:** Area, Magic
- **Type:** Maneuver
- **Distance:** 5 burst
- **Target:** All allies


**Effect:** Each target can choose another creature within **5 squares** of them. They swap places with that creature.
  The creature they choose must be able to fit into the space they leave and vice versa.

#### THE GODS COMMAND, YOU OBEY (5 PIETY)

You speak with the voice of your saint, commanding your enemies.

- **Keywords:** Attack, Magic, Ranged
- **Type:** Action
- **Distance:** Ranged 10
- **Target:** 1 creature

**Power Roll + Intuition:**

- **11 or lower:** 4 holy damage; [weak] before taking damage, the target makes a free strike against a target you
  choose
- **12–16:** 7 holy damage; [average] before taking damage, the target uses an action of your choice and you choose any
  targets
- **17+:** 11 holy damage; [strong] before taking damage, the target can shift their speed and uses an action of your
  choice, and you choose any targets

#### MORNING LIGHT (5 PIETY)

Light shines at your command, burning your foes and blessing your allies.

- **Keywords:** Area, Magic
- **Type:** Action
- **Distance:** 3 Burst
- **Target:** All enemies

**Power Roll + Intuition:**

- **11 or lower:** 4 fire damage
- **12–16:** 6 fire damage
- **17+:** 10 fire damage


**Effect:** Each ally in the area deals **+1 fire damage** with their next attack made before the end of their next
  turn.

#### NATURE JUDGES THEE (5 PIETY)

Mystical thorned vines appear and bind your foes.

- **Keywords:** Area, Magic, Ranged
- **Type:** Action
- **Distance:** 3 cube within 10
- **Target:** All enemies

**Power Roll + Intuition:**

- **11 or lower:** 2 damage; [weak] restrained (save ends)
- **12–16:** 3 damage; [average] restrained (save ends)
- **17+:** 7 damage; [strong] restrained (save ends)

#### OUR HEARTS, YOUR STRENGTH (5 PIETY)

An ally gains strength from their friends.

- **Keywords:** Magic, Ranged
- **Type:** Maneuver
- **Distance:** Self or Ranged 10
- **Target:** 2 allies, including self


**Effect:** Until the end of the encounter or the target starts dying, whenever the target starts their turn, they
  gain a bonus to speed and damage equal to the number of allies within **10 squares** of them that lasts until the
  start of their next turn.

#### REAP (5 PIETY)

The gods reward those who smite their foes.

- **Keywords:** Magic, Ranged
- **Type:** Maneuver
- **Distance:** Ranged 10
- **Target:** All allies


**Effect:** Until the start of your next turn, each time a target kills an enemy, they regain Stamina equal to **5 +
  your Intuition score**.

#### SACRED BOND (5 PIETY)

You forge a divine connection between two creatures.

- **Keywords:** Magic, Ranged
- **Type:** Maneuver
- **Distance:** Self or Ranged 10
- **Target:** 2 allies, including self


**Effect:** Until the end of the encounter, whenever one target takes damage, the other can choose to take it instead
  as a free triggered action. The original target still suffers any effects associated with the damage. Additionally,
  whenever one target spends a Recovery, the other can also spend a Recovery as a free triggered action.

#### SAINT’S TEMPEST (5 PIETY)

A raging storm appears, striking your foes with lightning and throwing them around with wind.

- **Keywords:** Area, Magic, Ranged
- **Type:** Action
- **Distance:** 3 cube within 10
- **Target:** All enemies

**Power Roll + Intuition:**

- **11 or lower:** 2 lightning damage; vertical slide 1
- **12–16:** 5 lightning damage; vertical slide 2
- **17+:** 7 lightning damage; vertical slide 3

#### STATUE OF POWER (5 PIETY)

A marble statue of your patron rises from the earth.

- **Keywords:** Magic, Ranged
- **Type:** Maneuver
- **Distance:** Ranged 10
- **Target:** Special


**Effect:** A **size 2** statue rises out of the ground in an unoccupied space within distance and lasts until the end
  of the encounter. You and each ally within **3 squares** of the statue gain **+1** on their abilities. The statue is
  destroyed if it takes **20 or more damage**. It is immune to poison and psychic damage.

#### WELLSPRING OF GRACE (5 PIETY)

A holy light emits from your body, healing your allies.

- **Keywords:** Area, Magic
- **Type:** Action
- **Distance:** 3 Aura
- **Target:** All allies


**Effect:** Until the end of the encounter or you start dying, whenever a target starts their turn within the aura,
  they can spend a Recovery as no action.

## 3RD-LEVEL FEATURES

As a 3rd-level conduit, you gain the following features.

### MINOR MIRACLE

You can beseech the gods to restore a fallen ally to life. To do so, you must have at least half of the creature’s
remains and they must have died an untimely death from something that isn’t age-related within the last **24 hours**.

As a respite activity, you perform a religious ritual to return the creature to life. The creature’s soul must be
willing to return to life for the ritual to work, and you know if they are or not the moment before you begin the
respite activity. If the creature’s soul is willing and able, they return to life at the end of the respite with full
Stamina and half their Recoveries. Additionally, you only gain Recoveries equal to half your maximum at the end of the
respite.

### 7-PIETY ABILITIES

Choose one heroic ability from the following options.

#### FEAR OF THE GODS (7 PIETY)

Your divine magic makes a creature appear as what your enemies fear most.

- **Keywords:** Area, Magic, Ranged
- **Type:** Action
- **Distance:** 5 cube within 10
- **Target:** All enemies

**Power Roll + Intuition:**

- **11 or lower:** 6 psychic damage; [weak] frightened (save ends)
- **12–16:** 9 psychic damage; [average] frightened (save ends)
- **17+:** 13 psychic damage; [strong] frightened (save ends)


**Effect:** You choose a creature within 10 squares who the targets are frightened of.

#### SAINT’S RAINMENT (7 PIETY)

An ally becomes the wearer of an empowered golden cloak.

- **Keywords:** Area, Magic, Ranged
- **Type:** Maneuver
- **Distance:** Ranged 10
- **Target:** 1 ally


**Effect:** The ally gains **+2** against attacks and **+1** on abilities until the end of the encounter.

#### SOUL SIPHON (7 PIETY)

A beam of energy connects a foe to a friend, draining life from one to heal the other.

- **Keywords:** Attack, Magic, Ranged
- **Type:** Action
- **Distance:** Ranged 10
- **Target:** 1 enemy

**Power Roll + Intuition:**

- **11 or lower:** 7 corruption damage
- **12–16:** 10 corruption damage
- **17+:** 15 corruption damage


**Effect:** One ally within distance can spend any number of Recoveries.

#### WORDS OF WRATH AND GRACE (7 PIETY)

Your saint grants your enemies a vision of whatever they most fear.

- **Keywords:** Area, Magic
- **Type:** Action
- **Distance:** 4 Burst
- **Target:** All enemies

**Power Roll + Intuition:**

- **11 or lower:** 2 holy damage
- **12–16:** 5 holy damage
- **17+:** 7 holy damage


**Effect:** Each ally in the area can spend a Recovery.

# ELEMENTALIST

Air for movement. Earth for permanence. Fire for destruction. Water for change. Green for growth. Rot for death. Void
for the mystery. Years of study and practice and poring over tomes brought you the revelations that allow you to
manipulate these building blocks of reality. Now you use your mastery of the seven elements to destroy, create, and warp
the world with magic.

As an elementalist, you can unleash your wrath across a field of foes, put an enemy exactly where you want them,
debilitate foes with harmful effects, ward yourself and allies against danger, manipulate terrain, warp space, and more.
Your choice of elemental specialization determines which of these things you do best.

## BASICS

Starting Characteristics: You start with a Reason score of 2, and can choose one of the following arrays for your other
characteristics scores:

- 2, 2, −1, −1
- 2, 1, 1, −1
- 2, 1, 0, 0
- 1, 1, 1, 0

Weak Potency: Reason score − 1  
Average Potency: Reason score  
Strong Potency: Reason score + 1

Starting Stamina at 1st Level: 18  
Stamina Gained at 2nd and Higher Levels: 12  
Recoveries: 8  
Skills: You gain Magic and can choose any three skills from the crafting or lore skill groups.

### ELEMENTALIST ADVANCEMENT

| Level | Features                                                                                                                                                       | Abilities                    |
|-------|----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|------------------------------|
| 1st   | Elemental Specialization, Essence, Hurl Element, Persistent Magic, Practical Magic, Specialization Feature, Specialization Triggered Action, Enchantment, Ward | Two signature, 1, 3, 5       |
| 2nd   | Perk, Specialization Feature, New 5-Essence Ability                                                                                                            | Two signature, 1, 3, 5, 5    |
| 3rd   | Specialization Feature, 7-Essence Ability                                                                                                                      | Two signature, 1, 3, 5, 5, 7 |

## 1ST-LEVEL FEATURES

As an elementalist, you gain the following features.

### ELEMENTAL SPECIALIZATION

Through your studies, you know and can manipulate the seven primal elements of the timescape:

- **Air** is the element of movement. Air abilities allow you to manipulate speed, quickness, flight, and breath.
- **Earth** is the element of permanence. Earth abilities create and shape physical terrain in a permanent way, and
  bolster the strength and hardiness of allies.
- **Fire** is the element of destruction. Fire abilities harm enemies and objects.
- **Green** is the element of creation and growth. Green abilities make and manipulate plants, fungi, and other forms of
  life to hamper foes and nourish your allies.
- **Rot** is the element of death. Rot abilities decay and debuff enemies.
- **Void** is the element of the unknown. Void abilities warp space and reality, allowing you to teleport, create
  illusions, and make things incorporeal.
- **Water** is the element of change. Water abilities enhance what your allies can do, and alter the abilities of your
  enemies for the worse.

Choose one of the following elements to be your specialty: earth, fire, green, or void. (Other elemental specializations
will be featured in future products.) Your choice of specialization determines many of the features you’ll gain from
this class, including one of the benefits below.

#### ACOLYTE OF EARTH

You gain this feature if earth is your specialization. When earth magic flows through you, you know how to harness it to
become harder to move. When you use a magic ability that has the Earth keyword, your Stability increases by 1 until the
start of your next turn.

#### ACOLYTE OF FIRE

You gain this feature if fire is your specialization. You are an expert at wielding destructive flames. When you deal
damage with a magic ability that has the Fire keyword, you deal an additional 1 damage.

#### ACOLYTE OF THE GREEN

You gain this feature if green is your specialization. You can harness the residual magic from your green spells to
bolster yourself and your allies. When you deal damage to at least one creature with a magic ability that has the Green
keyword and costs essence to use, you or a creature of your choice within 10 squares of you gains Temporary Stamina
equal to your Reason score. This temporary stamina disappears at the end of the encounter.

#### ACOLYTE OF THE MYSTERY

You gain this feature if void is your specialization. You are immersed in the mystery of void magic and can hold onto it
longer than other mages. The distance of all your magic abilities with the Void and Ranged keywords increases by 5.

### ESSENCE

You channel the substance of creation in the form of a Heroic Resource called essence. In times of great stress, you can
focus your control on this substance, gathering and burning it to cast and maintain spells.

#### ESSENCE IN COMBAT

When combat begins, gain essence equal to your Victories. At the start of each of your turns during combat, you gain 2
essence. When combat ends, you lose all of your essence.

#### ESSENCE OUTSIDE OF COMBAT

Though you can’t gain essence outside of combat, you can use your heroic abilities and effects that cost essence without
spending it. Whenever you use an ability or effect that costs essence outside of combat, you can’t use that same ability
or effect again outside of combat until you gain at least 1 Victory or finish a Respite.  
If you use a persistent ability outside of combat (see Persistent Magic), you can maintain it for a number of rounds
equal to your Victories outside of combat.  
If you use an ability that lets you spend unlimited essence on its effect out of combat, you can use it as if you had
spent an amount of essence on it equal to your Victories.

### HURL ELEMENT

You gain the following ability, which can be used as a ranged free strike:

#### HURL ELEMENT

*You cast a ball of elemental energy at a nearby foe.*

- **Keywords:** Attack, Magic, Ranged
- **Type:** Action
- **Distance:** Ranged 10
- **Target:** 1 creature or object

**Power Roll + Reason:**

- 11 or lower: 2 damage
- 12–16: 4 damage
- 17+: 6 damage


**Effect:** When you make this attack, choose the damage type from one of the following options: acid, cold, corruption,
fire, lightning, poison, or sonic.

### PERSISTENT MAGIC

Some of your heroic abilities have a persistent effect entry, like *Instantaneous Excavation*, which has an effect noted
as “Persistent 1.” Whenever you use a persistent ability, you decide whether you want to maintain it and start doing so
immediately after you first use the ability. If you maintain a persistent ability in combat, you reduce the amount of
essence you earn at the start of your turn by an amount equal to the ability’s persistent value, which enables the
ability’s persistent effect. All your active persistent abilities end when combat ends.  
You can’t maintain any abilities that would make you earn a negative amount of essence at the start of your turn or have
a negative amount of essence outside of combat. You can stop maintaining an ability at any time (no action required).

If you maintain the same ability on several targets and the effect includes a power roll, you make that roll once and
apply the same effect to all targets. A creature can’t be affected by multiple instances of a persistent ability.  
If you take damage equal to 5 × your Reason score in one turn, you stop maintaining any persistent abilities. For
example, if you have a Reason score of 2 and are maintaining *Instantaneous Excavation* and take 10 or more damage in
one turn, you stop maintaining the ability.

### PRACTICAL MAGIC

You have the following ability:

#### PRACTICAL MAGIC

*Your mastery of elemental power lets you customize your conjurations.*

- **Keywords:** Magic
- **Type:** Maneuver
- **Distance:** Self
- **Target:** Self


**Effect:** Choose one of the following effects:

- You use the Knockback maneuver, but you make a Reason ability power roll instead of a Might ability power roll. For
  this use of the maneuver, you can target a creature at a distance equal to the distance of your *Hurl Element*
  ability.
- You choose a creature within the distance of your *Hurl Element* ability and deal 1 surge damage to them. The damage
  type can be acid, cold, corruption, fire, lightning, poison, or sonic.
- You teleport a number of squares equal to your Reason score.

### 1ST-LEVEL SPECIALIZATION FEATURE

Your elementalist specialization grants you a feature, as shown on the 1st-Level Elementalist Specialization Features
table.

#### 1ST-LEVEL ELEMENTALIST SPECIALIZATION FEATURES

| Specialization | Feature                    |
|----------------|----------------------------|
| Earth          | Motivate Earth             |
| Fire           | Return to Formlessness     |
| Green          | It Is the Soul Which Hears |
| Void           | A Beyonding of Vision      |

#### A BEYONDING OF VISION

You instantly recognize illusions for what they are, you can see invisible creatures, and supernatural effects can’t
conceal creatures and objects from you. You always know if an area or object you observe is magical or affected by
magic, and the specifics of what that magic can do.

You also gain the following ability.

##### A SHARED REVEALING

*You grant allies a taste of your unearthly vision.*

- **Keywords:** Magic, Ranged, Void
- **Type:** Maneuver
- **Distance:** Ranged 10
- **Target:** Special


**Effect:** For each Victory you have, you can target 1 creature. That creature gains the benefit of your *A Beyonding
of Vision* feature until the end of your next turn, but doesn’t gain the use of *A Shared Revealing*.

#### IT IS THE SOUL WHICH HEARS

You can speak with and understand Animals, Plant Creatures, and Monstrosities, even if they don’t share a language with
you. Your ability to communicate with such creatures doesn’t make them inherently more intelligent, but you can use
Reason in place of Presence while making a Presence test to influence them.

Additionally, when you touch a living plant object, you can communicate with it telepathically. You can use words to
communicate with the plant, but it communicates with you only by transmitting feelings and sensations that can’t be
overly specific.

#### MOTIVATE EARTH

You gain the following ability:

##### MOTIVATE EARTH

*The earth rises, falls, or opens at your command.*

- **Keywords:** Earth, Magic, Melee
- **Type:** Action
- **Distance:** Melee 1
- **Target:** Special


**Effect:** You touch a square containing mundane dirt, stone, or metal and create a 5-square wall of the same material,
which rises up out of the ground and must include the square you touched.

**Alternative Effect:** You touch a structure of mundane dirt, stone, or metal that takes up at least 2 squares. You can
open a 1-square opening in the structure where you touched it.

**Alternative Effect:** You touch a doorway or other opening in a mundane dirt, stone, or metal surface that is no
larger than 1 square. The opening is sealed by the same material that makes up the surface.

#### RETURN TO FORMLESSNESS

You gain the following ability:

##### RETURN TO FORMLESSNESS

*With the merest touch, you cause an object to turn to slag or ash.*

- **Keywords:** Fire, Magic, Melee
- **Type:** Action
- **Distance:** Melee 1
- **Target:** 1 mundane object


**Effect:** You heat the target and cause it to combust and melt. If the object is larger than 1 square, then only the
square of the object that you touch is destroyed.

### SPECIALIZATION TRIGGERED ACTION

Your specialization grants you a triggered action, as shown on the Elementalist Triggered Actions table.

#### ELEMENTALIST TRIGGERED ACTIONS

| Specialization | Triggered Action              |
|----------------|-------------------------------|
| Earth          | Skin Like Castle Walls        |
| Fire           | Explosive Assistance          |
| Green          | The Breath of Dawn Remembered |
| Void           | A Subtle Relocation           |

#### THE BREATH OF DAWN REMEMBERED

*The power you channel grants the ability to get back in the fight.*

- **Keywords:** Green, Magic, Ranged
- **Type:** Triggered
- **Distance:** Ranged 10
- **Target:** Self or 1 ally
- **Trigger:** The target starts their turn.


**Effect:** The target can spend a Recovery. You gain 1 essence.

#### EXPLOSIVE ASSISTANCE

*You add a little magic to an ally’s aggression at just the right time.*

- **Keywords:** Fire, Magic, Ranged
- **Type:** Triggered
- **Distance:** Ranged 10
- **Target:** Self or 1 ally
- **Trigger:** The target force moves a creature or object.


**Effect:** The distance of the forced movement is increased by a number of squares equal to your Reason score. You gain
1 essence.


**Spend 1 Essence:** The distance of the forced movement is increased by a number of squares equal to twice your Reason
score instead. You gain no essence from using this triggered action.

#### SKIN LIKE CASTLE WALLS

*You imbue an attack with the strength of stone.*

- **Keywords:** Earth, Magic, Ranged
- **Type:** Triggered
- **Distance:** Self or Ranged 10
- **Target:** Self or 1 ally
- **Trigger:** The target makes a melee attack.


**Effect:** The attack gains 1 surge. You gain 1 essence.


**Spend 1 Essence:** The attack also pushes the target a number of squares equal to your Reason score after all its
other effects are resolved. You gain no essence from using this triggered action.

#### A SUBTLE RELOCATION

*You call on the void to swallow and spit out an ally.*

- **Keywords:** Magic, Ranged, Void
- **Type:** Triggered
- **Distance:** Self or Ranged 10
- **Target:** Self or 1 ally
- **Trigger:** The target starts their turn or moves.


**Effect:** At any point during the move, you teleport the target a number of squares equal to your Reason. You gain 1
essence.


**Spend 1 Essence:** You teleport the target a number of squares equal to twice your Reason score instead. You gain no
essence from using this triggered action.

### ENCHANTMENT

You weave an elemental enchantment into your body that enhances your statistics. You can change your enchantment along
with your ward (see Elementalist Ward) by performing a complex ritual spell as a respite activity.

#### ENCHANTMENT OF BATTLE

*You tap into the elemental mysteries to gain the mind and training of a warrior.*

You can wear medium armor and wield light weapons effectively, even though you don’t have a kit. While you wear medium
armor, you gain a +6 bonus to Stamina. While you wield a light weapon, you deal 1 extra damage with abilities that have
the Weapon keyword, including free strikes. You can use medium armor and light weapon treasures. If you have a kit, you
can’t take this prayer.

#### ENCHANTMENT OF CELERITY

*You infuse your body with the speed of elemental air.*

Your speed increases by 1, and when you take the Disengage move action, you can shift 1 extra square.

#### ENCHANTMENT OF DESTRUCTION

*You harness the destruction of flame inside your mind, allowing you to focus your magic on destroying your enemies.*

When you deal damage with a Magic ability, the damage dealt increases by 1.

#### ENCHANTMENT OF DISTANCE

*You reach into the mysteries of the void and mix that element with all of your abilities.*

The ranged distance of your abilities with the Ranged and Magic keywords increases by 5.

#### ENCHANTMENT OF PERMANENCE

*You place the magic of earth into your flesh and bones, making you tougher and harder to move.*

Your Stamina increases by 3 and stability increases by 1.

### ELEMENTALIST WARD

*You create an invisible elemental ward that protects you.*

You can choose one of the following wards. You can change your ward along with your enchantment (see Enchantment) by
performing a complex ritual spell as a respite activity.

#### WARD OF DELIGHTFUL CONSEQUENCES

*You create a protective field made of void magic that absorbs violence aimed at you and stores it for vengeance.*

Your ward stores the energy of incoming harm and allows you to hurl it back at your enemies. When you take damage, the
next magic ability you use that deals damage before the end of your next turn deals additional damage to one target
equal to your Reason score. This effect isn’t cumulative.

#### WARD OF EXCELLENT PROTECTION

*The protective shield you weave around yourself is made of all the elements.*

Your magic protects you from the elements. You have immunity to acid, cold, corruption, fire, and lightning equal to
your level.

#### WARD OF NATURE’S AFFECTION

*You store green energy within your body.*

When a creature within a number of squares equal to your Reason score deals damage to you, you can pull them up to a
number of squares equal to your Reason score.

#### WARD OF SURPRISING REACTIVITY

*You use the magic of fire to create your ward.*

You make yourself an invisible ward of explosive fire energy. When an adjacent creature deals damage to you, you can
push them a number of squares equal to your Reason score as a free triggered action.

### ELEMENTALIST ABILITIES

Your mastery of elemental magic grants you unique magical abilities that let you damage, move, and debuff your enemies,
empower your allies, and alter the terrain around you.

#### SIGNATURE ABILITIES

Select two signature abilities from the options below. Signature abilities can be used at will.

##### AFFLICT A BOUNTIFUL DECAY

*Your curse causes a foe’s flesh to rot off as spores that aid your allies.*

- **Keywords:** Attack, Green, Rot, Magic, Ranged
- **Type:** Action
- **Distance:** Ranged 10
- **Target:** 1 creature

**Power Roll + Reason:**

- 11 or lower: 2 corruption damage
- 12–16: 3 corruption damage
- 17+: 4 corruption damage


**Effect:** You or an ally within distance can end one effect that is ended by a saving throw or that ends at the end of
their turn.

##### BIFURCATED CONFLAGRATION

*Two jets of flame lance out at your command.*

- **Keywords:** Attack, Fire, Magic, Ranged
- **Type:** Action
- **Distance:** Ranged 10
- **Target:** 2 creatures or objects

**Power Roll + Reason:**

- 11 or lower: 2 fire damage
- 12–16: 3 fire damage
- 17+: 4 fire damage

##### GRASP OF BEYOND

*You absorb the life energy of another creature and use it to teleport.*

- **Keywords:** Attack, Magic, Melee, Void
- **Type:** Action
- **Distance:** Melee 1
- **Target:** 1 creature

**Power Roll + Reason:**

- 11 or lower: 3 corruption damage
- 12–16: 5 corruption damage
- 17+: 8 corruption damage


**Effect:** You can teleport a number of squares equal to your Reason score.

##### THE GREEN WITHIN, THE GREEN WITHOUT

*Whipping vines erupt from a foe’s body to grasp at another close by.*

- **Keywords:** Attack, Green, Magic, Ranged
- **Type:** Action
- **Distance:** Ranged 10
- **Target:** 1 creature

**Power Roll + Reason:**

- 11 or lower: 2 damage
- 12–16: 3 damage
- 17+: 5 damage


**Effect:** You slide a creature within 10 squares of the target up to 2 squares. If the creature is a willing ally, the
forced movement ignores stability.

##### A METEORIC INTRODUCTION

*You give your enemy a gentle tap like an asteroid impact.*

- **Keywords:** Attack, Earth, Magic, Melee
- **Type:** Action
- **Distance:** Melee 1
- **Target:** 1 creature or object

**Power Roll + Reason:**

- 11 or lower: 2 damage; push 2
- 12–16: 4 damage; push 3
- 17+: 6 damage; push 4

##### RAY OF AGONIZING SELF REFLECTION

*You inflict pain and doubt in equal measure.*

- **Keywords:** Attack, Magic, Ranged, Void
- **Type:** Action
- **Distance:** Ranged 10
- **Target:** 1 creature or object

**Power Roll + Reason:**

- 11 or lower: 2 corruption damage; R [weak] slowed (save ends)
- 12–16: 3 corruption damage; R [average] slowed (save ends)
- 17+: 4 corruption damage; R [strong] slowed (save ends)

##### UNQUIET GROUND

*A sudden storm of detritus assaults your foes and leaves them struggling to move.*

- **Keywords:** Area, Earth, Magic, Ranged
- **Type:** Action
- **Distance:** 2 cube within 10
- **Target:** All enemies

**Power Roll + Reason:**

- 11 or lower: 2 damage
- 12–16: 3 damage
- 17+: 5 damage


**Effect:** The ground beneath the area becomes difficult terrain for your enemies.

##### VISCOUS FIRE

*A jet of heavy fire erupts with elemental fury where it strikes.*

- **Keywords:** Attack, Fire, Magic, Ranged
- **Type:** Action
- **Distance:** Ranged 10
- **Target:** 1 creature or object

**Power Roll + Reason:**

- 11 or lower: 2 fire damage; push 2
- 12–16: 3 fire damage; push 3
- 17+: 5 fire damage; push 4

#### HEROIC ABILITIES

You channel a range of heroic abilities, all of them fueled by your essence.

##### 3-ESSENCE ABILITIES

Choose one heroic ability from the following options, each of which costs 3 essence to use.

###### BEHOLD THE MYSTERY (3 ESSENCE)

*You open a rift into the void to harry your enemies.*

- **Keywords:** Area, Magic, Ranged, Void
- **Type:** Action
- **Distance:** 3 cube within 10
- **Target:** All enemies

**Power Roll + Reason:**

- 11 or lower: 2 psychic damage
- 12–16: 4 psychic damage
- 17+: 6 psychic damage


**Persistent 1:** At the start of your turn, you can use your maneuver to use this ability again without spending
essence.

###### THE FLESH, A CRUCIBLE (3 ESSENCE)

*Fire engulfs a target of your choice and burns at your command.*

- **Keywords:** Attack, Fire, Magic, Ranged
- **Type:** Action
- **Distance:** Ranged 10
- **Target:** 1 creature or object

**Power Roll + Reason:**

- 11 or lower: 5 fire damage
- 12–16: 8 fire damage
- 17+: 11 fire damage


**Persistent 1:** If the target is within distance at the start of your turn, make a power roll for this ability again.

###### INVIGORATING GROWTH (3 ESSENCE)

*Mushrooms erupt from a foe, sapping their vitality to spread strengthening spores.*

- **Keywords:** Attack, Green, Magic, Ranged
- **Type:** Action
- **Distance:** Ranged 10
- **Target:** 1 creature

**Power Roll + Reason:**

- 11 or lower: 4 poison damage
- 12–16: 7 poison damage
- 17+: 11 poison damage


**Effect:** The mushrooms can be removed by the target or by an adjacent creature as an action. While the mushrooms are
on the target, each of your allies adjacent to the target gains 1 surge on attacks.

###### RIPPLES IN THE EARTH (3 ESSENCE)

*Like a stone dropped into a pond, waves in the earth radiate from you.*

- **Keywords:** Area, Earth, Magic
- **Type:** Action
- **Distance:** 2 burst
- **Target:** All enemies

**Power Roll + Reason:**

- 11 or lower: 3 damage
- 12–16: 5 damage
- 17+: 8 damage; M [strong] prone


**Effect:** You must be touching the ground or floor to use this ability. The surface beneath the area becomes difficult
terrain for your enemies.

##### 5-ESSENCE ABILITIES

Choose one heroic ability from the following options, each of which costs 5 essence to use.

###### CONFLAGRATION (5 ESSENCE)

*A storm of fire descends upon your enemies.*

- **Keywords:** Area, Fire, Magic, Ranged
- **Type:** Action
- **Distance:** 3 cube within 10
- **Target:** All enemies

**Power Roll + Reason:**

- 11 or lower: 4 fire damage
- 12–16: 6 fire damage
- 17+: 10 fire damage


**Persistent 2:** At the start of your turn, you can use your maneuver to use this ability again without spending
essence.

###### INSTANTANEOUS EXCAVATION (5 ESSENCE)

*The surface of the world around you opens up at your command.*

- **Keywords:** Magic, Earth, Ranged
- **Type:** Maneuver
- **Distance:** Ranged 10
- **Target:** Special


**Effect:** You open two holes with 1-square openings that are 4 squares deep, which can be placed on any mundane
surface within distance. You can place these holes next to each other to create fewer holes with wider openings. Make a
separate power roll for each creature standing above a hole when it opens and small enough to fall in. (You can’t get a
critical hit with this power because it uses a maneuver).

**Power Roll + Reason:**

- 11 or lower: The target can shift up to 1 square from the edge of the hole to the nearest unoccupied space of their
  choice.
- 12–16: The target falls into the hole.
- 17+: The target falls into the hole and can’t reduce the height of the fall.


**Persistent 1:** At the start of your turn, you open another hole.

###### NO MORE THAN A BREEZE (5 ESSENCE)

*The material substance of a creature shreds away at your command.*

- **Keywords:** Magic, Melee, Void
- **Type:** Maneuver
- **Distance:** Self or Ranged 10
- **Target:** Self or 1 ally


**Effect:** Until the start of your next turn, the target has insubstantiality and can move through solid matter and
ignores difficult terrain. If the target ends their turn inside solid matter, they are shunted out into the space where
they entered it and this effect ends.


**Persistent 1:** The effect lasts until the start of your next turn.

###### TEST OF RAIN (5 ESSENCE)

*You call down a rain that burns your enemies and restores your allies.*

- **Keywords:** Area, Green, Magic
- **Type:** Action
- **Distance:** 3 cube within 10
- **Target:** All enemies

**Power Roll + Reason:**

- 11 or lower: 4 acid damage
- 12–16: 6 acid damage
- 17+: 10 acid damage


**Effect:** You and each ally within distance can end one effect that is ended by a saving throw or that ends at the end
of their turn.

## 2ND-LEVEL FEATURES

As a 2nd-level elementalist, you gain the following features.

### PERK

You gain a crafting, lore, or supernatural perk of your choice. See Perks for more information.

### 2ND-LEVEL SPECIALIZATION FEATURE

Additionally, your specialization grants you a feature as shown on the 2nd-Level Elementalist Specialization Features
table.

#### 2ND-LEVEL ELEMENTALIST SPECIALIZATION FEATURES

| Specialization | Feature                                |
|----------------|----------------------------------------|
| Earth          | Extra Shield, Disciple of Earth        |
| Fire           | Extra Surge, Disciple of Fire          |
| Green          | Disciple of the Green, Extra Shield    |
| Void           | There is No Space Between, Extra Surge |

#### DISCIPLE OF THE GREEN

*You can use a maneuver to shapeshift into a form on the Green Animal Forms table.*

When you make this change, your statistics, except for those noted on the table, remain the same. You choose the exact
animal and your appearance in this form. For example, if you become a rodent, you decide if you are a mouse, rat, shrew,
or other size-1T rodent that fits the description.  
While in these forms, you can speak, and you use your Reason score to make melee free strikes. Other than exceptions
noted in this description and on the table, your statistics remain the same.

Some forms have a prerequisite level you must achieve in this class before you can use them. Some of these forms allow
you to gain Temporary Stamina. You gain this Temporary Stamina while you are in the form and lose it when you revert
back to your true form.  
When you make this change, you decide which pieces of your equipment meld into your new form or fall unharmed to the
ground. When you change back, melded gear reappears on your person.

You can revert back to your true form as a maneuver. You can’t enter an animal form unless you are in your true form. If
you are dying, you revert to your true form and can’t turn back into an animal until you are no longer dying.

#### DISCIPLE OF FIRE

*Your connection to fire allows you to protect yourself from it and rip away the protections of others.*

You gain fire immunity equal to 5 plus your level in this class. In addition, your fire damage dealt by you ignores
other creature’s fire immunities. Finally, when you deal damage with a fire ability, the damage is increased by an
amount equal to your Reason score.

#### DISCIPLE OF EARTH

*Your body is strengthened by your mind’s connection to the element of permanence.*

Your Stamina increases by 6, and you gain an additional 3 Stamina whenever you gain a level beyond 2nd in this class.
Additionally, when you are forced to make a Might resistance roll, you can make a Reason resistance roll instead.

#### EXTRA SHIELD

Your (SHIELD) limit increases by 1, for a maximum of (SHIELD)(SHIELD)(SHIELD)(SHIELD).

#### EXTRA SURGE

Your (SURGE) limit increases by 1, for a maximum of (SURGE)(SURGE)(SURGE)(SURGE).

#### THERE IS NO SPACE BETWEEN

You gain the following ability:

##### THERE IS NO SPACE BETWEEN

*Knowledge of the mystery reveals two spaces are the same space.*

- **Keywords:** Magic, Persistent, Ranged, Void
- **Type:** Maneuver
- **Distance:** Ranged 10
- **Target:** Special


**Effect:** You open two size-1 portals in unoccupied spaces that last until the start of your next turn. Each portal
must be placed at a height of no more than 1 square above ground. When you or an ally touches a portal, the creature can
choose to be instantly teleported to an unoccupied space of their choice within 1 square of the other portal. If an
enemy is forced moved into the portal, their forced movement ends and they emerge from the other portal in an unoccupied
space of your choice.


**Persistent 0:** If the portals are within distance at the start of your next turn, they remain open until the start of
your next turn. Additionally, you can open another portal that is connected to the others. When three or more portals
exist, you and allies choose which other portal you emerge from when you enter one, and you choose which other portal
enemies emerge from when they are force moved into one.

#### GREEN ANIMAL FORMS

| Animal           | Level | Temp. Stamina | Speed         | Size | Stability | Melee Damage Bonus | Special                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      |
|------------------|-------|---------------|---------------|------|-----------|--------------------|----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| Canine           | 2nd   | 5             | 7             | 1M   | +0        | +1/+1/+1           | You have an edge on tests that involve smell.                                                                                                                                                                                                |
| Fish             | 2nd   | 0             | 5 (swim only) | 1T   | +0        | +0/+0/+0           | You can breathe in water, but can’t breathe outside of it.                                                                                                                                                                                   |
| Rodent           | 2nd   | 0             | 5 (climb)     | 1T   | +0        | +0/+0/+0           | You have an edge on tests that involve smell.                                                                                                                                                                                                |
| Bird             | 3rd   | 0             | 5 (fly)       | 1T   | +0        | +0/+0/+0           | —                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            |
| Great Cat        | 3rd   | 5             | 6             | 2    | +0        | +1/+1/+1           | When you charge another creature of size or smaller and get a tier 2 or better result on the attack, you knock the target prone.                                                                                                             |
| Mohler           | 4th   | 0             | 7 (burrow)    | 1S   | +1        | +0/+0/+0           | Your reach increases by 1 while burrowing.                                                                                                                                                                                                   |
| Horse            | 4th   | 5             | 8             | 2    | +1        | +0/+0/+0           | You can use the Charge action as a maneuver. You cannot use two Charge actions on the same turn.                                                                                                                                             |
| Giant Frog       | 4th   | 5             | 5 (leap)      | 2    | +0        | +0/+0/+0           | Your melee free strike has a reach of 3.                                                                                                                                                                                                     |
| Bear             | 5th   | 10            | 5 (climb)     | 2    | +1        | +2/+2/+2           | —                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            |
| Giant Bird       | 5th   | 0             | 7 (fly)       | 2    | +0        | +1/+1/+1           | You can shift 3 after making a melee free strike.                                                                                                                                                                                            |
| Giant Salamander | 6th   | 5             | 5             | 1L   | +3        | +0/+0/+0           | Your melee free strike deals acid damage and inflicts slowed (EoT) on a tier 2 or better result.                                                                                                                                             |
| Giant Spider     | 6th   | 0             | 5 (climb)     | 2    | +0        | +0/+1/+2           | You have a double edge on melee free strikes against creatures you are hidden from.                                                                                                                                                          |
| Giant Snake      | 7th   | 5             | 5             | 3    | +0        | +0/+1/+2           | When you get a tier 2 or better result on your melee free strike, you can make the target grabbed by you. The target takes 2 damage at the start of their turn while grabbed this way.                                                       |
| Spiny Armadillo  | 7th   | 10            | 5             | 1M   | +2        | +0/+0/+0           | When you take damage from a melee ability used by an adjacent creature, the creature takes 3 damage.                                                                                                                                         |
| Kangaroo         | 7th   | 0             | 7 (leap)      | 1L   | +1        | +0/+0/+3           | On a critical hit, your melee free strike inflicts dazed (save ends) on the target.                                                                                                                                                          |
| Shark            | 8th   | 0             | 8 (swim only) | 2    | +0        | +2/+2/+2           | You can breathe in water but can’t breathe outside of it. Your attacks deal 3 extra damage to bleeding and winded targets.                                                                                                                   |
| Ostrich          | 8th   | 0             | 10            | 2    | +0        | +1/+1/+1           | Your movement does not provoke opportunity attacks.                                                                                                                                                                                          |
| Rhinoceros       | 9th   | 10            | 8             | 2    | +5        | +2/+2/+2           | When you make a melee free strike as part of the Charge action, it deals an extra 3 damage.                                                                                                                                                  |
| Giant Octopus    | 9th   | 5             | 5 (swim)      | 3    | +2        | +0/+0/+0           | You can breathe in water. You can target 2 creatures or objects with your melee free strike, and you can automatically make a target grabbed by you on a tier 2 or better result. You can have up to 8 creatures grabbed while in this form. |
| King Dinosaur    | 10th  | 20            | 5             | 4    | +3        | +2/+2/+2           | Your melee free strike has a distance of 1 burst with the Area keyword instead of the Attack keyword.                                                                                                                                        |

### NEW 5-ESSENCE ABILITY

Choose a new heroic ability from one of the following options.

#### O FLOWER AID, O EARTH DEFEND (5 ESSENCE)

Revitalizing plants and jagged stones grow, helping allies and hindering foes.  

- **Keywords:** Area, Earth, Green, Magic, Ranged  
- **Type:** Maneuver  
- **Distance:** 3 Cube within 10  
- **Target:** Special  
- 

**Effect:** Until the start of your next turn, the area gains the following effects:

- You and allies in the area can take the Catch Breath action as a maneuver.
- The area is difficult terrain for your enemies.
- When an enemy enters the area for the first time on a turn or starts their turn there, they take (SURGE) damage.


**Persistent 1:** The area remains until the start of your next turn. You can move the area up to 5 squares as a
maneuver. This ability ends if you lose line of effect to its area.

#### SUBVERT THE GREEN WITHIN (5 ESSENCE)

Burrow into their brains and take control!  

- **Keywords:** Green, Magic, Ranged, Void  
- **Type:** Action  
- **Distance:** Ranged 10  
- **Target:** 1 creature  

**Effect:** The target uses their signature ability, and you choose the target. Then roll power against the target.

**Power Roll + Reason:**

- 11 or lower: 5 poison damage
- 12-16: 9 poison damage
- 17+: 12 poison damage

#### TRANSLATED THROUGH FLAME (5 ESSENCE)

Your ally disappears, then reappears in a burst of fire! 

- **Keywords:** Area, Fire, Magic, Ranged, Void  
- **Type:** Action  
- **Distance:** Self or Ranged 10  
- **Target:** Self or 1 ally  

**Effect:** The target is teleported to another space within distance. Make one total power roll against each enemy
adjacent to the target’s new space.

**Power Roll + Reason:**

- 11 or lower: 3 fire damage
- 12-16: 5 fire damage
- 17+: 8 fire damage

#### VOLCANO’S EMBRACE (5 ESSENCE)

Wrap them up in fire and melting stone. 

- **Keywords:** Earth, Fire, Magic, Ranged  
- **Type:** Action  
- **Distance:** Ranged 10  
- **Target:** 1 creature

**Power Roll + Reason:**

- 11 or lower: 5 fire damage; A [weak] restrained (save ends)
- 12-16: 9 fire damage; A [average] restrained (save ends)
- 17+: 12 fire damage; A [strong] restrained (save ends)

## 3RD-LEVEL FEATURES

As a 3rd-level elementalist, you gain the following features.

### 3RD-LEVEL SPECIALIZATION FEATURE

Your specialization grants you a feature as shown on the 3rd-Level Elementalist Specialization Features table.

#### 3RD-LEVEL ELEMENTALIST SPECIALIZATION FEATURES

| Specialization | Feature                          |
|----------------|----------------------------------|
| Earth          | The Earth Accepts Me             |
| Fire           | A Conversation with Fire         |
| Green          | Remember Growth and Sun and Rain |
| Void           | Distance is Only Memory          |

#### A CONVERSATION WITH FIRE

While you are in front of a fire, you can speak the name of another creature as a maneuver. If they are willing to speak
to you, their image appears in the fire, and they can see you before them in a shimmering ball of light. You can speak
to each other through these images as if you were together in person. The creature or you can end the conversation as a
maneuver.

#### DISTANCE IS ONLY MEMORY

When you finish a respite, you can open a portal that leads to any place you have been previously. Only creatures that
you deem allies can pass through the portal. The portal remains open for 1 hour or until you dismiss it as an action.

#### THE EARTH ACCEPTS ME

You gain the following ability:

##### THE EARTH ACCEPTS ME

You can slip into the stone.

- **Keywords:** Earth, Magic  
- **Type:** Action  
- **Distance:** Self  
- **Target:** Self


**Effect:** Step into a mundane dirt, stone, or metal wall or object that is as large as you or larger. You can remain
inside the wall or object for as long as you like. While inside the wall or object, you can observe events and speak to
creatures outside of it, but you don’t have line of effect to anything outside the wall and vice versa. You can travel
through the wall or object freely until you exit it. If the wall or object you are in is destroyed, you take 10 damage
and exit the wall.

#### REMEMBER GROWTH AND SUN AND RAIN

You gain the following ability:

##### REMEMBER GROWTH AND SUN AND RAIN

You stir any wood's memory and learn what it has seen.

- **Keywords:** Green, Magic, Melee  
- **Type:** Action  
- **Distance:** Melee 1  
- **Target:** 1 mundane object made of wood


**Effect:** You see and hear any events that have occurred within 10 squares of the object within the last 12 hours,
perceiving those events from the object’s perspective.

### 7-ESSENCE ABILITY

Choose a new heroic ability from the following options.

#### ERASE (7 ESSENCE)

With a flick of the wrist, you phase creatures out of existence. 

- **Keywords:** Attack, Magic, Ranged, Void  
- **Type:** Action  
- **Distance:** Ranged 10  
- **Target:** Special


**Effect:** Each target begins to fade from existence (save ends). While fading from existence, a target has bane on all
power rolls. At the end of their first turn suffering this effect, they have a double bane on all power rolls. At the
end of their second turn suffering this effect, they fade from existence for 1 hour, then return to the spot where they
left. You can target a number of creatures with this ability equal to your power roll.

**Power Roll + Reason:**

- 11 or lower: 1 creature
- 12-16: 2 creatures
- 17+: 3 creatures

#### FIST OF EARTH (7 ESSENCE)

An enormous fist rises from the ground to crush your foes.

- **Keywords:** Attack, Earth, Magic, Ranged  
- **Type:** Action  
- **Distance:** Ranged 10  
- **Target:** 1 creature or object

**Power Roll + Reason:**

- 11 or lower: 5 damage; M [weak] restrained (save ends)
- 12-16: 9 damage; M [average] restrained (save ends)
- 17+: 12 damage; M [strong] restrained (save ends)


**Effect:** While the target is restrained, they take (SURGE)(SURGE) damage at the start of their turn.

#### SWARM OF SPIRITS (7 ESSENCE)

Guardian animal spirits surround you.

- **Keywords:** Area, Green, Magic  
- **Type:** Action  
- **Distance:** 3 Aura  
- **Target:** All enemies

**Power Roll + Reason:**

- 11 or lower: 3 damage
- 12-16: 6 damage
- 17+: 9 damage


**Effect:** Until the end of your next turn, each ally in your aura has an edge on resistance rolls and +1 on saving
throws.


**Persistent 1:** You can roll power against each enemy in your aura by making one power roll total, and the effect
lasts until the start of your next turn.

#### WALL OF FIRE (7 ESSENCE)

A blazing, beautifully organized inferno.

- **Keywords:** Area, Fire, Magic, Persistent, Ranged  
- **Type:** Action  
- **Distance:** 10 wall within 10  
- **Target:** Special


**Effect:** You can place this wall in occupied squares. The wall lasts until the start of your next turn. Creatures can
enter and pass through this wall. When an enemy enters the wall for the first time on a turn or starts their turn there,
they take (SURGE)(SURGE) fire damage.


**Persistent 1:** The effect lasts until the start of your next turn, and you can add a number of squares to the wall
equal to your Reason score.

# FURY

You do not temper the heat of battle within you, you unleash it! Like a raptor, a panther, a wolf, your experience in
the wild taught you the secret of channeling unfettered anger into martial prowess. Primordial chaos is your ally. Leave
it to others to use finesse to clean up the pieces you leave behind.

As a fury, you have abilities that deal a lot of damage, move you around the battlefield, and grow in strength as your
rage increases. Nature has no concept of fairness—and neither do you.

## BASICS

**Starting Characteristics:** You start with a Might of 2 and an Agility of 2, and can choose one of the following
arrays for your other characteristics scores:

- 2, -1, -1
- 1, 1, -1
- 1, 0, 0

**Weak Potency:** Might score - 1  
**Average Potency:** Might score  
**Strong Potency:** Might score + 1

**Starting Stamina at 1st Level:** 21  
**Stamina Gained at 2nd and Higher Levels:** 12  
**Recoveries:** 10  
**Skills:** Nature, plus choose any two skills from the exploration or intrigue skill groups.

### Fury Advancement

| Level | Features                                                                                                                | Abilities | Aspect Abilities |
|-------|-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|-----------|------------------|
| 1st   | Primordial Aspect, Rage, Growing Rage, Aspect Features, Aspect Triggered Action, Mighty Leaps, Fury Abilities Signature | 3, 5      | —                |
| 2nd   | Aspect Feature, Extra Surge, Aspect Ability Signature                                                                   | 3, 5      | 5                |
| 3rd   | Aspect Feature, 7-Rage Ability Signature                                                                                | 3, 5, 7   | 5                |

## 1ST-LEVEL FEATURES

As a fury, you gain the following features.

### PRIMORDIAL ASPECT

You come from a tradition older than civilization, older than warfare, older than most of the world. You have undergone
a rite of passage that revealed the building blocks of the Timescape—the Primordial Chaos—and which left an aspect of
the Primordial Chaos inside you. As you channel the rage that shapes you, you can choose a primordial aspect from the
following:

- **Berserker:** You channel your rage into expressions of physical might, acting as a living version of the forces that
  reshape the world. You gain the Lift skill.
- **Reaver:** You channel your rage into instinct and cunning, challenging the false order of civilization. You gain the
  Hide skill.
- **Stormwight:** You channel your rage into the form of animals and primordial storms. You gain the Track skill.

Your choice of primordial aspect determines many of the features you’ll gain from this class.

### RAGE

As the battle intensifies around you, your determination and anger grow, fueling a Heroic Resource called rage.

#### RAGE IN COMBAT

When a combat encounter begins, you gain rage equal to your Victories. At the start of each turn of combat, you gain 1d3
rage. The first time in a round that you take damage, you gain 1 rage. Your rage disappears at the end of the encounter.

#### RAGE OUTSIDE OF COMBAT

Though you can’t gain rage outside of combat, you can use your heroic abilities and effects that cost rage without
spending it. Whenever you use an ability or effect that costs rage outside of combat, you can’t use that same ability or
effect again outside of combat until you gain at least 1 Victory or finish a Respite.

If you use an ability that lets you spend unlimited rage on its effect, such as *To the Uttermost End*, out of combat,
you can use it as if you had spent an amount of rage on it equal to your Victories.

### GROWING RAGE

You gain certain benefits in combat based on the amount of rage you have. See Aspect Features for details. The benefits
from your growing rage last until the end of your turn, even if a benefit would become unavailable to you because of the
amount of rage you spend during your turn.

### 1ST-LEVEL ASPECT FEATURES

Your chosen primordial aspect grants you features as shown on the 1st-Level Primordial Aspect Features table.

#### 1ST-LEVEL PRIMORDIAL ASPECT FEATURES

| Aspect     | Feature                        |
|------------|--------------------------------|
| Berserker  | Kit, Primordial Strength       |
| Reaver     | Kit, Primordial Cunning        |
| Stormwight | Beast Shape, Relentless Hunter |

#### BEAST SHAPE

When you select a martial kit, you can instead select a stormwight kit (see Stormwight Kits). Your stormwight kit grants
you a number of benefits, including effects tied to your Growing Rage feature.

#### KIT

You can use and gain the benefits of a kit. See the Kits chapter for more information.

#### PRIMORDIAL CUNNING

You are never surprised. Additionally, whenever you would push a target with forced movement, you can slide them
instead. As your rage grows, your primordial cunning intensifies.

##### PRIMORDIAL CUNNING GROWING RAGE

| Rage          | Benefit                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     |
|---------------|---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| 3             | - You gain an edge on Agility tests and resistance rolls. <br> - Once per turn, when you slide a target or move adjacent to a target during a shift, you can deal (SURGE).                                                                                                                                                                        |
| 6             | Once per turn, when you slide a target or move adjacent to a target during a shift, you can deal (SURGE)(SURGE).                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        |
| 9             | You have a double edge on Agility tests and resistance rolls.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               |
| 12 (Level 4)  | Once per turn, when you slide a target or move adjacent to a target during a shift, you can deal weapon damage to the target equal to triple your Agility score.                                                                                                                                                                            |
| 15 (Level 7)  | You achieve Tier 3 on all Agility tests and resistance rolls.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               |
| 18 (Level 10) | - Once per turn, when you slide a target or move adjacent to a target during a shift, you can deal (SURGE)(SURGE)(SURGE)(SURGE). <br> - Once per turn, as a free maneuver, you can remove an effect or condition affecting you. You can choose to apply the removed effect or condition to an adjacent enemy, who is affected by it until the End of the Encounter. |

#### PRIMORDIAL STRENGTH

When you damage an object with a weapon attack, it takes an (SURGE). Additionally, whenever you push another creature into an
object, they take (SURGE). As your rage grows, your primordial strength intensifies.

##### PRIMORDIAL STRENGTH GROWING RAGE

| Rage          | Benefit                                                                                                                                                                                 |
|---------------|-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| 3             | - You gain an edge on Might tests and resistance rolls. <br> - You deal (SURGE) if you are at least 2 squares from where you started your turn when you attack.                               |
| 6             | You deal (SURGE)(SURGE) if you are at least two squares from where you started your turn when you attack.                                                                                           |
| 9             | You have a double edge on Might tests and resistance rolls.                                                                                                                             |
| 12 (Level 4)  | You deal (SURGE)(SURGE)(SURGE) if you are at least two squares from where you started your turn when you attack.                                                                                          |
| 15 (Level 7)  | You achieve Tier 3 on all Might tests and resistance rolls.                                                                                                                             |
| 18 (Level 10) | - You deal (SURGE)(SURGE)(SURGE)(SURGE) if you are at least two squares from where you started your turn when you attack. <br> - You become size 2 and the reach of your melee weapon abilities increases by 1. |

#### RELENTLESS HUNTER

You gain an edge on tests that use the Track skill.

### ASPECT TRIGGERED ACTION

Your primordial aspect grants you a triggered action, as shown on the Fury Triggered Actions table.

| Aspect     | Triggered Action   |
|------------|--------------------|
| Berserker  | Lines of Force     |
| Reaver     | Unearthly Reflexes |
| Stormwight | Furious Change     |

#### FURIOUS CHANGE

In your anger, you revert to a more bestial form.

- **Keywords:** Melee  
- **Type:** Triggered  
- **Distance:** Self  
- **Target:** Self  
- **Trigger:** You lose Stamina and are not dying.  

**Effect:** After damage is resolved, if your rage is high enough, you can enter your animal or hybrid form as a free
triggered action. You gain temporary Stamina equal to your Might.  

**Spend 3 Rage:** If you are not dying, you can spend a Recovery.

#### LINES OF FORCE

You redirect the energy of motion.

- **Keywords:** Magic, Melee  
- **Type:** Triggered  
- **Distance:** Self or Melee 1  
- **Target:** Self or 1 creature  
- **Trigger:** The target is force moved.  

**Effect:** You can select a new target of the same size or smaller within distance to be force moved instead and change
the direction of that forced movement. Additionally, you can increase the forced move distance by a number of squares
equal to your Might score.  

**Spend 1 Rage:** You can increase the forced move distance by a number of squares equal to twice your Might score
instead.

#### UNEARTHLY REFLEXES

Elusive as a hummingbird. 

- **Keywords:** Melee  
- **Type:** Triggered  
- **Distance:** Melee 1  
- **Target:** Self  
- **Trigger:** You are targeted by a damaging area of effect.  

**Effect:** You shift up to 2 squares. If that moves you out of the area of effect, you ignore the attack. Otherwise,
you take half damage.  

**Spend 3 Rage:** You move a willing adjacent ally affected by the attack with you, applying the same outcome to them.

### MIGHTY LEAPS

You always succeed on Might tests made to jump. You can still roll to see if you get a reward result.

### WHERE'S MY MANEUVER?

Since most other classes get a bespoke maneuver, during playtesting many folks asked, "Where is the fury's special
maneuver?" The fury doesn’t need a maneuver all their own because most of the time we’ve found that the fantasy of the
fury has them using the **Knockback** or **Grab** maneuvers in combat. They’re really good at it too, so it doesn’t make
sense to give you another option that you'll rarely or never use.

### FURY ABILITIES

You specialize in dealing massive damage on the battlefield, mastering a number of unique martial abilities that allow
you to strike hard and keep moving in combat.

#### SIGNATURE ABILITY

Select one signature ability from the options below. Signature abilities can be used at will.

##### BRUTAL SLAM

The heavy impact of your weapon attacks drives your foes ever backward.

- **Keywords:** Attack, Melee, Weapon  
- **Type:** Action  
- **Distance:** Melee 1  
- **Target:** 1 creature or object

**Power Roll + Might:**

- 11 or lower: 2 damage; push 1
- 12–16: 5 damage; push 2
- 17+: 7 damage; push 4

##### HIT AND RUN

Keeping in constant motion helps you slip out of reach after a brutal assault.

- **Keywords:** Attack, Melee, Weapon  
- **Type:** Action  
- **Distance:** Melee 1  
- **Target:** 1 creature or object

**Power Roll + Might:**

- 11 or lower: 2 damage
- 12–16: 3 damage
- 17+: 5 damage; A [strong] slowed (save ends)  


**Effect:** You can shift 1 square after the attack is resolved.

##### IMPALED!

You plunge your weapon into your enemy like a boar upon a spit.

- **Keywords:** Attack, Melee, Weapon  
- **Type:** Action  
- **Distance:** Melee 1  
- **Target:** 1 creature of your size or smaller

**Power Roll + Might:**

- 11 or lower: 2 damage; M [weak] grabbed
- 12–16: 3 damage; M [average] grabbed
- 17+: 5 damage; M [strong] grabbed

##### TO THE DEATH!

Your reckless assault leaves you tactically vulnerable.

- **Keywords:** Attack, Melee, Weapon  
- **Type:** Action  
- **Distance:** Reach  
- **Target:** 1 creature or object

**Power Roll + Might:**

- 11 or lower: 3 damage
- 12–16: 6 damage
- 17+: 9 damage  


**Effect:** You can choose to do (SURGE) to the target. If you do, the target gains (SURGE) on their next attack against you.

#### HEROIC ABILITIES

You fight with an array of heroic abilities, all of which cost rage to fuel them.

##### 3-RAGE ABILITIES

Choose one heroic ability from the following options, each of which costs 3 rage to use.

###### BACK! (3 RAGE)

Surrounded? The fools!

- **Keywords:** Area, Melee, Weapon  
- **Type:** Action  
- **Distance:** 1 burst  
- **Target:** All enemies

**Power Roll + Might:**

- 11 or lower: 5 damage
- 12–16: 8 damage; push 1
- 17+: 11 damage; push 3

###### OUT OF THE WAY! (3 RAGE)

Your enemies will get out of your way—whether they want to or not.

- **Keywords:** Attack, Melee, Weapon  
- **Type:** Action  
- **Distance:** Melee 1  
- **Target:** 1 creature

**Power Roll + Might:**

- 11 or lower: 3 damage; slide 2
- 12–16: 5 damage; slide 3
- 17+: 8 damage; slide 5


**Effect:** When you force move the target, you can move into any square they leave. If you take damage from an
opportunity attack by moving this way, the target takes the same amount and type of damage.

###### TIDE OF DEATH (3 RAGE)

Teach them the folly of lining up for you. 

- **Keywords:** Area, Melee, Weapon  
- **Type:** Action  
- **Distance:** Self  
- **Target:** Self  

**Effect:** You move your speed in a straight line. You don’t treat enemy squares as difficult terrain for this move.
You can end this move in a creature’s square and then move them to an adjacent unoccupied space. Make one total power
roll against every enemy you moved through.

**Power Roll + Might:**

- 11 or lower: 2 damage
- 12–16: 3 damage
- 17+: 5 damage  


**Effect:** The target takes an extra (SURGE) for every free strike you triggered from your move.

###### YOUR ENTRAILS ARE YOUR EXTRAILS! (3 RAGE)

Hard for them to fight when they're busy holding in their giblets. 

- **Keywords:** Attack, Melee, Weapon  
- **Type:** Action  
- **Distance:** Melee 1  
- **Target:** 1 creature or object

**Power Roll + Might:**

- 11 or lower: 3 damage; M [weak] bleeding (save ends)
- 12–16: 5 damage; M [average] bleeding (save ends)
- 17+: 8 damage; M [average] bleeding (save ends)  


**Effect:** The target takes (SURGE) whenever they fail a save for bleeding.

##### 5-RAGE ABILITIES

Choose one heroic ability from the following options, each of which costs 5 rage to use.

###### BLOOD FOR BLOOD! (5 RAGE)

A mighty strike leaves your foe reeling. 

- **Keywords:** Attack, Melee, Weapon  
- **Type:** Action  
- **Distance:** Melee 1  
- **Target:** 1 creature or object

**Power Roll + Might:**

- 11 or lower: 4 damage; M [weak] bleeding and weakened (save ends)
- 12–16: 6 damage; M [average] bleeding and weakened (save ends)
- 17+: 10 damage; M [strong] bleeding and weakened (save ends)  


**Effect:** You can choose to deal 1d6 damage to yourself to deal an extra 1d6 damage to the target.

###### MAKE PEACE WITH YOUR GOD! (5 RAGE)

Anger is an energy. 

- **Keywords:** —  
- **Type:** Free maneuver  
- **Distance:** Self  
- **Target:** Self  

**Effect:** The next attack you make this turn automatically achieves a tier 3 result and gains (SURGE).

###### THUNDER ROAR (5 RAGE)

A howl erupts from you that hurls your enemies back. 

- **Keywords:** Area, Melee, Weapon  
- **Type:** Action  
- **Distance:** 5 × 1 line within 1  
- **Target:** All enemies

**Power Roll + Might:**

- 11 or lower: 6 damage; push 2
- 12–16: 9 damage; push 4
- 17+: 13 damage; push 6  


**Effect:** Targets are pushed one at a time, starting with the target closest to you.

###### TO THE UTTERMOST END (5 RAGE)

You spend your life force to ensure their death. 

- **Keywords:** Attack, Melee, Weapon  
- **Type:** Action  
- **Distance:** Melee 1  
- **Target:** 1 creature

**Power Roll + Might:**

- 11 or lower: 7 damage
- 12–16: 11 damage
- 17+: 16 damage  


**Spend 1 or More Additional Rage:** If you are winded, you can add 1d6 damage for each rage spent. If you are dying,
  you can add 1d10 damage for each rage spent. In either case, you then lose 1d6 Stamina.

## 2ND-LEVEL FEATURES

As a 2nd-level fury, you gain the following features.

### EXTRA SURGE

Your (SURGE) limit increases by 1, for a maximum of (SURGE)(SURGE)(SURGE)(SURGE).

### 2ND-LEVEL ASPECT FEATURE

Your specialization grants you features as shown on the 1st-level Primordial Aspect Features table.

#### 2ND-LEVEL PRIMORDIAL ASPECT FEATURES

| Aspect     | Feature           |
|------------|-------------------|
| Berserker  | Unstoppable Force |
| Reaver     | Inescapable Wrath |
| Stormwight | Tooth and Claw    |

#### INESCAPABLE WRATH

Your speed increases by your Agility score. You ignore difficult terrain.

#### TOOTH AND CLAW

Any enemy within Reach takes (SURGE) at the start of their turns.

#### UNSTOPPABLE FORCE

When you use the Charge action, you can choose to use a signature or heroic melee attack instead of a free strike. You
can jump as part of a charge.

### PERK

You gain a crafting, exploration, or intrigue perk of your choice. See Perks for more information.

### 2ND-LEVEL ASPECT ABILITY

Your specialization grants your choice of one of two abilities.

#### 2ND-LEVEL BERSERKER ABILITIES

Choose one of the following abilities.

##### SPECIAL DELIVERY (5 RAGE)

You ready? 

- **Keywords:** Attack, Melee, Weapon  
- **Type:** Maneuver  
- **Distance:** Melee 1  
- **Target:** 1 willing ally  

**Effect:** You vertically push 4 the target. The target can decline to use their Stability. At the end of the push, the
target can make a free strike with (SURGE). You force move the target carefully enough that they do not take damage from the
move.

##### WRECKING BALL (5 RAGE)

It is easier to destroy than to create. Much easier, in fact! 

- **Keywords:** Area, Melee, Weapon  
- **Type:** Maneuver  
- **Distance:** Self  
- **Target:** Self  

**Effect:** You move up to your full speed in a straight line. You can move through mundane walls or other structures
with each square counting as difficult terrain. Destroy each square of structure you move through and leave behind a
square of difficult terrain. Make a power roll against every enemy you move past as part of this move.

**Power Roll + Might:**

- 11 or lower: push 1
- 12–16: push 2
- 17+: push 3

#### 2ND-LEVEL REAVER ABILITIES

Choose one of the following abilities.

##### PHALANX BREAKER (5 RAGE)

Organizing your forces like feckless creatures of Law. Pitiful. 

- **Keywords:** Attack, Melee, Weapon  
- **Type:** Action  
- **Distance:** Self  
- **Target:** Self  

**Effect:** Shift up to your speed. You can roll power once, targeting each enemy who you come adjacent to during the
move.

**Power Roll + Might:**

- 11 or lower: 1 damage; A [weak] dazed (save ends)
- 12–16: 2 damage; A [average] dazed (save ends)
- 17+: 3 damage; A [strong] dazed (save ends)

##### RRRAAAGHH! (5 RAGE)

Death! Deeaaath!! 

- **Keywords:** Attack, Melee, Ranged, Weapon  
- **Type:** Action  
- **Distance:** Melee 1  
- **Target:** 1 creature

**Power Roll + Might:**

- 11 or lower: 3 damage; P [weak] dazed and frightened (save ends)
- 12–16: 5 damage; P [average] dazed and frightened (save ends)
- 17+: 8 damage; P [strong] dazed and frightened (save ends)

#### 2ND-LEVEL STORMWIGHT ABILITIES

Choose one of the following abilities.

##### APEX PREDATOR (5 RAGE)

I will hunt you down.

- **Keywords:** Animal, Attack, Melee, Weapon  
- **Type:** Action  
- **Distance:** Reach  
- **Target:** 1 creature

**Power Roll + Might:**

- 11 or lower: 4 damage; I [weak] slowed (save ends)
- 12–16: 6 damage; I [average] slowed (save ends)
- 17+: 10 damage; I [strong] slowed (save ends)  


**Effect:** The target can’t be hidden from you for 24 hours. For the rest of the encounter, whenever the target
  moves, you can move as a free triggered action.

##### VISCERAL ROAR (5 RAGE)

The sound of the storm within you terrifies your opponents.

- **Keywords:** Animal, Area, Magic  
- **Type:** Action  
- **Distance:** 2 burst  
- **Target:** All enemies

**Power Roll + Might:**

- 11 or lower: 2 damage of your Primordial Storm type; push 1; M [weak] dazed (save ends)
- 12–16: 5 damage of your Primordial Storm type; push 2; M [average] dazed (save ends)
- 17+: 7 damage of your Primordial Storm type; push 3; M [strong] dazed (save ends)

## 3RD-LEVEL FEATURES

As a 3rd-level fury, you gain the following features.

### 3RD-LEVEL ASPECT FEATURE

Your connection to the Primordial Chaos grows, expressing itself in your body and nature. Your aspect grants you a
feature as shown on the 3rd-Level Primordial Aspect Features table.

#### 3RD-LEVEL PRIMORDIAL ASPECT FEATURES

| Aspect     | Feature                 |
|------------|-------------------------|
| Berserker  | Immovable Object        |
| Reaver     | See Through Your Tricks |
| Stormwight | Nature’s Knight         |

#### IMMOVABLE OBJECT

You add your level to your size when resisting effects against you, calculating how much you can lift, and for the
purposes of forced movement. You add your Might score to your Stability.

#### NATURE’S KNIGHT

You can speak with all animals and elementals regardless of what form you are in. You automatically sense the presence
of any animal or elemental within 10 squares of you, even if they are hidden. You are considered to have 1 higher Renown
if negotiation with an animal or elemental comes into play. This stacks with the Renown bonus for animals of your type
that your animal form gives you.

#### SEE THROUGH YOUR TRICKS

You always gain the mechanical benefits of surprise at the beginning of combat. You have a double edge on any checks to
search for hidden creatures, hidden motives, or lies. Also to gamble!

### 7-RAGE ABILITIES

Choose one heroic ability from the following options.

#### A DEMON UNLEASHED (7 RAGE)

Foes tremble at the sight of you. 

- **Keywords:** Magic  
- **Type:** Maneuver  
- **Distance:** Self  
- **Target:** Self  

**Effect:** Until the end of the encounter or you are dying, all enemies that start their turn adjacent to you are
P [strong] frightened (EoT).

#### FACE THE STORM! (7 RAGE)

Fight or flight? FIGHT!! 

- **Keywords:** Magic  
- **Type:** Maneuver  
- **Distance:** Self  
- **Target:** Self  

**Effect:** Until the end of the encounter or you are dying, any creature you make a melee attack against is P [average]
taunted (EoT). You do (SURGE)(SURGE) extra damage and increase effect potency by 1 against any taunted enemy.

#### STEELBREAKER (7 RAGE)

See how useless their weapons are! 

- **Keywords:** Magic  
- **Type:** Maneuver  
- **Distance:** Self  
- **Target:** Self  

**Effect:** Until the end of the encounter you have (SHIELD)(SHIELD).

#### YOU ARE ALREADY DEAD (7 RAGE)

Slash. Walk away. 

- **Keywords:** Attack, Melee, Weapon  
- **Type:** Action  
- **Distance:** Melee 1  
- **Target:** 1 creature  

**Effect:** If the target is not a boss or solo creature, they die at the end of their next turn. If the target is a
boss or solo creature, the next attack against them gains (SHIELD).

## STORMWIGHT KITS

The primordial aspect of the stormwight lets you channel your rage into the form of an animal and grants you knowledge
of one of a number of special stormwight kits. You can master additional stormwight kits through play, swapping them out
during a Respite as with any other kit. (See Kits.)

### KIT FEATURES

All stormwight kits have the following features in common.

#### ASPECT BENEFITS

You always have the noted benefits, whether in your true form, the animal form you can take at any time, or the hybrid
form that some stormwight kits grant you as your rage increases.

#### ASPECT OF THE WILD

You have some of the noted benefits all the time, but gain other benefits only while in animal form, as noted on the
table that tracks the benefits you gain from your Growing Rage feature for each stormwight kit.

##### ANIMAL FORM FEATURE

The animal form feature for each stormwight kit grants you the following ability:

###### ASPECT OF THE WILD

You assume the form of the animal who channels your rage.

- **Keywords:** —  
- **Type:** Maneuver  
- **Distance:** Self  
- **Target:** Self  

**Effect:** You can shapeshift into the animal defined by your stormwight kit or back into your true form. While in
animal form, you can’t use signature abilities or heroic abilities unless they have the Animal keyword. Additionally,
you can both speak normally and speak to animals who share your form. If negotiation with an animal comes into play, you
treat your Renown as 2 higher than usual while in your animal form.  

**Spend 1 Rage:** As a free maneuver on your turn, you can shapeshift a second time, either into another animal form or
back into your true form.

#### PRIMORDIAL STORM

Each stormwight is associated with a primordial storm that refers to a specific damage type used by certain stormwight
abilities.

#### EQUIPMENT

You wear no armor, and wield only your unarmed strikes—which become devastating natural weapons as your rage grows.

#### KIT BONUSES

These bonuses apply in your true form, your animal form, and your hybrid form if you have one.

#### GROWING RAGE

Each stormwight gains a specific set of benefits for their fury Growing Rage feature, as noted in the table for each
stormwight kit.

### BOREN

With this stormwight kit, you channel your primordial rage into the form of a bear, becoming large, durable, and
imposing. Boren are tied to the craggy, rocky north, and this aspect is associated with the blizzard’s bitter cold.

#### ASPECT BENEFITS

Whenever you use forced movement to push a creature, you can pull that creature instead. Whenever an attack pulls a
creature adjacent to you, you can use a free triggered action to apply M [average] grabbed.

#### ANIMAL FORM: BEAR

When you are in your bear form, your speed increases by 2, your size becomes 2, and you have a +1 melee distance.

#### PRIMORDIAL STORM: BLIZZARD

Your primordial damage type is cold.

#### KIT BONUSES

- **Stamina Bonus:** +9
- **Stability Bonus:** +2
- **Melee Weapon Damage Bonus:** +0/+0/+3

#### SIGNATURE ABILITY

##### BEAR CLAWS

Attacks with your sharp and deadly claws send your foes staggering back. 

- **Keywords:** Animal, Attack, Melee, Weapon  
- **Type:** Action  
- **Distance:** Melee 1  
- **Target:** 1 creature or object

**Power Roll + Might:**

- 11 or lower: 2 damage; M [weak] grabbed
- 12–16: 3 damage; M [average] grabbed
- 17+: 8 damage; M [strong] grabbed

#### BEAR GROWING RAGE

| Rage          | Benefit                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    |
|---------------|--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| 3             | - You gain an edge on Might tests, resistance rolls, and power rolls made to grab. <br> - While in bear form, your attacks do (SURGE), and any target you have grabbed at the start of your turn takes (SURGE).                                                                            |
| 6             | While in bear form, your attacks do (SURGE)(SURGE), and any target you have grabbed at the start of your turn takes (SURGE)(SURGE).                                                                                                                                                        |
| 9             | You have a double edge on Might tests, resistance rolls, and power rolls made to grab.                                                                                                                                                                                                     |
| 12 (Level 4)  | While in bear form, your attacks do (SURGE)(SURGE)(SURGE), and any target you have grabbed at the start of your turn takes (SURGE)(SURGE)(SURGE).                                                                                                                                                                      |
|               |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            |
| 15 (Level 7)  | You always achieve Tier 3 results on Might tests, resistance rolls, and power rolls made to grab.                                                                                                                                                                                          |
| 18 (Level 10) | - While in bear form, your attacks do (SURGE)(SURGE)(SURGE)(SURGE), and any target you have grabbed at the start of your turn takes (SURGE)(SURGE)(SURGE)(SURGE). <br> - Your size increases by 1 and you gain 20 Temporary Stamina the first time you grow to this size in the encounter. |

### CORVEN

With this stormwight kit, you channel your primordial rage into the form of a crow. Corven are tied to the mountain
passes and the hot winds that flow through them. This aspect is associated with the katabatic wind.

#### ASPECT BENEFITS

You gain an edge on tests made to hide and sneak. Whenever you are falling, you can use your Animal Form ability as a
free triggered action.

#### ANIMAL FORM: CROW

When you are in your crow form, your movement gains the Fly keyword, you become the size of a bird, 1T. You can use the
Hide maneuver as a free maneuver, and you can use your allies as cover when you hide. Whenever your rage is 4 or higher,
you can shapeshift to become a hybrid bipedal crow of your true form’s size.

#### PRIMORDIAL STORM: KATABATIC WIND

Your primordial damage type is fire.

#### KIT BONUSES

- **Stamina Bonus:** +3
- **Speed Bonus:** +3
- **Melee Weapon Damage Bonus:** +2/+2/+2
- **Disengage Bonus:** +1

#### SIGNATURE ABILITY

##### WING BUFFET

Foes who try to close around you do so at their peril.

- **Keywords:** Animal, Area, Melee, Weapon  
- **Type:** Action  
- **Distance:** 1 Burst  
- **Target:** All enemies

**Power Roll + Agility:**

- 11 or lower: 4 damage
- 12–16: 5 damage
- 17+: 6 damage  


**Effect:** You can shift 2 before or after the attack.

#### CROW GROWING RAGE

| Rage          | Benefit                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  |
|---------------|------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| 3             | - You can shift 1 square as a free maneuver once per turn. <br> - While in crow form, your attacks do (SURGE). <br> - Once per turn while in crow form, when you move away from an enemy, that enemy takes damage equal to your Agility score.                                                                                                                                           |
| 6             | - While in crow or hybrid crow form, you can use all your abilities, and your attacks do (SURGE)(SURGE). <br> - Once per turn while in crow or hybrid crow form, when you move away from an enemy, that enemy takes (SURGE)(SURGE).                                                                                                                                                      |
| 9             | You can shift up to 2 squares as a free maneuver once per turn.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          |
| 12 (Level 4)  | - While in crow or hybrid crow form, you can use all your abilities, and your attacks do (SURGE)(SURGE)(SURGE). <br> - Once per turn while in crow or hybrid crow form, when you move away from an enemy, that enemy takes (SURGE)(SURGE)(SURGE).                                                                                                                                                                    |
| 15 (Level 7)  | You can shift up to 4 squares as a free maneuver once per turn.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          |
| 18 (Level 10) | - While in crow or hybrid crow form, you can use all your abilities, and your attacks do (SURGE)(SURGE)(SURGE)(SURGE). <br> - Once per turn while in crow or hybrid crow form, when you move away from an enemy, that enemy takes (SURGE)(SURGE)(SURGE)(SURGE). <br> - Your size increases by 1 and you gain 20 Temporary Stamina the first time you grow to this size in the encounter. |

### RADEN

With this stormwight kit, you channel your primordial rage into the form of a rat. Raden are associated with the true
nature of the rat, before cities became their habitat.

Rats are avatars of the balance between green and rot, and this aspect is associated with the rat flood.

#### ASPECT BENEFITS

You gain an edge on tests made to hide and sneak. Additionally, you ignore difficult terrain, and you gain an edge on
tests made to climb other creatures. If you are hidden, you automatically achieve a tier 3 result on attempts to climb
and remain hidden.

#### ANIMAL FORM: RAT

When you are in your rat form, your movement gains the Climb keyword, you become the size of a rat, 1T. You can use the
Hide maneuver as a free maneuver, and you can use your allies as cover when hiding. You can stay hidden while moving
through squares occupied by a creature. Whenever your rage is 4 or higher, you can shapeshift to become a hybrid bipedal
rat of your true form’s size.

#### PRIMORDIAL STORM: RAT FLOOD

Your primordial damage type is corruption.

#### KIT BONUSES

- **Stamina Bonus:** +3
- **Speed Bonus:** +3
- **Melee Weapon Damage Bonus:** +2/+2/+2
- **Disengage Bonus:** +1

#### SIGNATURE ABILITY

##### DRIVING POUNCE

Your enemies try in vain to fall back from your pouncing attack.

- **Keywords:** Animal, Attack, Melee, Weapon  
- **Type:** Action  
- **Distance:** Reach  
- **Target:** 1 creature or object

**Power Roll + Agility:**

- 11 or lower: 4 damage
- 12–16: 5 damage; push 1
- 17+: 7 damage; push 2  


**Effect:** You can shift the same number of squares that you pushed the target.

#### RAT GROWING RAGE

| Rage          | Benefit                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           |
|---------------|-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| 3             | - You have Weapon immunity 2. <br> - While in rat form, your attacks do (SURGE). <br> - While in rat form, if you attack a creature you are climbing, that creature is bleeding (EoT).                                                                                                                                                                            |
| 6             | - While in rat or hybrid rat form, you can use all your abilities, and your attacks do (SURGE)(SURGE). <br> - While in rat or hybrid form, if you attack a creature you are climbing, that creature is bleeding (EoT).                                                                                                                                            |
| 9             | You have (SHIELD). Any damage you ignore because of this is dealt to each enemy adjacent to you as (SURGE).                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       |
| 12 (Level 4)  | - While in rat or hybrid rat form, you can use all your abilities, and your attacks do (SURGE)(SURGE)(SURGE). <br> - While in rat or hybrid form, if you attack a creature you are climbing, that creature is bleeding (EoT).                                                                                                                                                   |
| 15 (Level 7)  | You have (SHIELD)(SHIELD). Any damage you ignore because of this immunity is dealt to each enemy adjacent to you as (SURGE)(SURGE).                                                                                                                                                                                                                               |
| 18 (Level 10) | - While in rat or hybrid rat form, you can use all your abilities, and your attacks do (SURGE)(SURGE)(SURGE)(SURGE). <br> - While in rat or hybrid rat form, if you attack a creature you are climbing, that creature is bleeding (EoT). <br> - Your size increases by 1 and you gain 20 Temporary Stamina the first time you grow to this size in the encounter. |

### VUKEN

With this stormwight kit, you channel your primordial rage into the form of a wolf. Vuken are tied to forests and open
steppes, and this aspect is associated with the thunderstorm.

#### ASPECT BENEFITS

You and an ally gain the benefits of flanking whenever you are both adjacent to a target. If you and at least two other
allies are all adjacent to a target, each of you has a double edge for flanking.

#### ANIMAL FORM: WOLF

When you are in your wolf form, your speed increases by 2, you ignore difficult terrain, and your size becomes 1M if
they aren’t already. Whenever your rage is 4 or higher, you can shapeshift to become a hybrid bipedal wolf of your true
form’s size.

#### PRIMORDIAL STORM: LIGHTNING STORM

Your primordial damage type is lightning.

#### KIT BONUSES

- **Stamina Bonus:** +9
- **Speed Bonus:** +2
- **Melee Weapon Damage Bonus:** +2/+2/+2
- **Disengage:** +1

#### SIGNATURE ABILITY

##### PROBING ATTACK

A savage assault forces your foes back.

- **Keywords:** Animal, Attack, Melee, Weapon  
- **Type:** Action  
- **Distance:** Reach  
- **Target:** 1 creature or object

**Power Roll + Might:**

- 11 or lower: 4 damage; A [weak] prone
- 12–16: 5 damage; A [average] prone
- 17+: 7 damage; A [strong] prone

#### WOLF GROWING RAGE

| Rage          | Benefit                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        |
|---------------|------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| 3             | - You gain an edge on Agility tests and resistance rolls. <br> - While in wolf form, your attacks do (SURGE). <br> - When you attack a target while in wolf form, the next ally to damage that target before the start of your next turn has (SURGE) against the target.                                                                                                                                                                                   |
| 6             | - While in wolf or hybrid wolf form, you can use all your abilities, and your attacks do (SURGE)(SURGE)(SURGE). <br> - When you attack a target while in wolf or hybrid wolf form, the next ally to damage that target before the start of your next turn has (SURGE)(SURGE) against the target.                                                                                                                                                                              |
| 9             | You have a double edge on Agility tests and resistance rolls.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  |
| 12 (Level 4)  | - While in wolf or hybrid wolf form, you can use all your abilities, and your attacks do (SURGE)(SURGE)(SURGE). <br> - When you attack a target while in wolf or hybrid wolf form, the next ally to damage that target before the start of your next turn has (SURGE)(SURGE)(SURGE) against the target.                                                                                                                                                                            |
| 15 (Level 7)  | You achieve Tier 3 on all Agility tests and resistance rolls.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  |
| 18 (Level 10) | - While in wolf or hybrid wolf form, you can use all your abilities, and your attacks deal extra damage equal to quadruple your Agility score. <br> - When you attack a target while in wolf or hybrid wolf form, the next ally to damage that target before the start of your next turn has (SHIELD)(SHIELD)(SHIELD)(SHIELD) against the target. <br> - Your size increases by 1 and you gain 20 Temporary Stamina the first time you grow to this size in the encounter. |

# NULL

The mind is not separate from the body. Perfection of one requires perfection of the other. You strive for perfect
discipline, perfect order, mastery over mind and body. You require no weapons, no tools. Any tool can be turned against
the hand that wields it. You suffice.

As you strive for perfect order, you become an enemy of that ultimate expression of chaos: Magic. Those who employ
sorcery or psionics to break the laws of nature should fear you.

The null is an unarmed psionic warrior who dampens and absorbs the effects of magic and psionics. You need no weapon
because you are the weapon. Your Heroic Resource is discipline. Play a null if you want to resist the supernatural
forces of the universe with expert calm and confidence.

## BASICS

**Starting Characteristics:** You start with an Agility of 2 and an Intuition of 2, and can choose one of the following
arrays for your other characteristics scores:

- 2, -1, -1
- 1, 1, -1
- 1, 0, 0

**Weak Potency:** Intuition score - 1  
**Average Potency:** Intuition score  
**Strong Potency:** Intuition score + 1

**Starting Stamina at 1st Level:** 21  
**Stamina Gained at 2nd and greater levels:** 9  
**Recoveries:** 8

**Skills:** You gain Psionics. Choose 2 from any interpersonal or lore skill.

### NULL ADVANCEMENT

| Level | Features                                                                                                                   | Abilities              | Tradition Ability |
|-------|----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|------------------------|-------------------|
| 1st   | Tradition, Discipline, Null Field, Inertial Shield, Discipline Mastery, Mind-Body Focus, Psionic Knockback, Null Abilities | Two signature, 3, 5    | —                 |
| 2nd   | Perk, Tradition Features, Tradition Ability                                                                                | Two signature, 3, 5    | 5                 |
| 3rd   | Psionic Disruption, Discipline Ability                                                                                     | Two signature, 3, 5, 7 | 5                 |

## 1ST-LEVEL FEATURES

As a null, you gain the following features.

### TRADITIONS

Nulls have learned to unlock the full psionic potential of their bodies through extensive physical training. Where a
talent has mastery of the mind, the null has mastery of the body.

Choose one of the following traditions. Your choice determines your tradition features and tradition triggered action in
addition to several features you get at later levels.

- **Chronokinetic:** Your training has allowed you to become unmoored from time, using the flow of time as another
  dimension that all things move through. You gain a lore skill.
- **Cryokinetic:** You are able to tap into the most essential energy of the manifolds, absolute cold, and manifest
  those effects in your body. You gain a crafting skill.
- **Metakinetic:** Many attempt to perfect their bodies, but you have learned to see through the illusions of the
  universe to understand your true body and its true psionic potential. You gain an exploration skill.

### DISCIPLINE

Mastery of your body and tradition in its use fuel your powers. You have a heroic resource called discipline.

#### DISCIPLINE IN COMBAT

When a combat encounter begins, you gain discipline equal to your Victories. At the start of your turn in combat, you
gain 2 discipline. You gain 1 discipline the first time in a round your null field affects a creature. When combat ends,
your discipline drops to 0.

#### DISCIPLINE OUTSIDE OF COMBAT

Though you can’t gain discipline outside of combat, you can use your heroic abilities and effects that cost discipline
without spending it. Whenever you use an ability or effect that costs discipline outside of combat, you can’t use that
same ability or effect again outside of combat again until you gain at least 1 Victory or finish a Respite.

If you use an ability that lets you spend unlimited discipline on its effect out of combat, you can use it as if you had
spent an amount of discipline on it equal to your Victories.

### NULL FIELD

You have the ability to project a psionic field of order around your body. This field dampens the effects of
supernatural abilities that attempt to harm you and any allies within.

#### NULL FIELD

> Magic is a form of chaos. My body is beyond such things

- **Keywords:** Psionic  
- **Type:** Maneuver  
- **Distance:** 1 aura  
- **Target:** Self and all creatures


**Effect:** Until you are dying, attacks with the Magic or Psionic keyword take a bane if they target a target within the
aura or are made by an enemy within the aura. Resistance rolls against abilities with the Magic or Psionic keyword have
an edge if they target a target within the aura or are used by an enemy within the aura. These effects increase to a
double bane or a double edge, respectively, if the creature using the ability is grabbed by you.

### INERTIAL SHIELD

Your body has been trained to predict when attacks will happen before they happen.

#### INERTIAL SHIELD

> You intuit where an incoming attack will strike, reducing its effects.

- **Keywords:** Psionic  
- **Type:** Triggered  
- **Distance:** Self  
- **Target:** Self  
- **Trigger:** You take damage.  

**Effect:** You gain (SHIELD) for the attack and reduce any potency of effects associated with the damage by 1.

### MASTERY

Your choice of tradition grants you a form of honing discipline.  
As your discipline grows, your psionic mastery over your body intensifies. These benefits are cumulative.

#### CHRONOKINETIC MASTERY

You gain a bonus to your Speed equal to your Agility. When you take the Disengage move action, you can add this bonus to
the number of squares you shift.

**Discipline Benefit**

- **3**
    - When you use the Inertial Shield triggered action, you can use the Disengage move action as a free triggered
      action.
    - When you take the Disengage move action, you can slide an adjacent creature a number of squares equal to your
      Agility.

- **6**  
	- Whenever you use the Inertial Shield triggered action, you can do (SURGE) psychic damage to a creature of your choice within
  your Null Field and make them suffer a [weak] version of any effect you beat using that triggered action.

- **9** 
	- When you take the Disengage move action, you can slide one adjacent creature a number of squares equal to twice your
  Agility.

- **12 (Level 4)**  
	- Whenever you use the Inertial Shield triggered action, you can do (SURGE)(SURGE) psychic damage to a creature of your choice
  within your Null Field and make them suffer an [average] version of any effect you beat using that triggered action.

- **15 (Level 7)**  
	- When you take the Disengage move action, you can slide two adjacent creatures a number of squares equal to triple your
  Agility score.

- **18 (Level 10)**
    - Whenever you use the Inertial Shield triggered action, you can do (SURGE)(SURGE)(SURGE) psychic damage to a creature of your choice
      within your Null Field and make them suffer a [strong] version of any effect you beat using that triggered action.
    - If you move at least 5 squares on your turn, you can do (SURGE)(SURGE)(SURGE) damage against one target you attack after making this
      movement.

#### CRYOKINETIC MASTERY

Enemies treat squares within your Null Aura as difficult terrain.

**Discipline Benefit**

- **3**
    - When you use the Inertial Shield triggered action, you can slide the triggering attacker a number of squares equal
      to your Intuition.
    - Enemies that enter or begin their turn in your Null Field suffer A [weak] slowed (save ends).

- **6**  
	- Whenever you use the Inertial Shield triggered action, you can do (SURGE) cold damage to a creature of your choice within
  your Null Field and make them suffer a [weak] version of any effect you beat using that triggered action.

- **9**  
	- Enemies that enter or begin their turn in your Null Field suffer A [average] slowed (save ends).

- **12 (Level 4)**  
	- Whenever you use the Inertial Shield triggered action, you can do (SURGE)(SURGE) cold damage to a creature of your choice within
  your Null Field and make them suffer an [average] version of any effect you beat using that triggered action.

- **15 (Level 7)**  
	- Enemies that enter or begin their turn in your Null Field suffer A [strong] slowed (save ends).

- **18 (Level 10)**
    - Whenever you use the Inertial Shield triggered action, you can do (SURGE)(SURGE)(SURGE) cold damage to a creature of your choice
      within your Null Field and make them suffer a [strong] version of any effect you beat using that triggered action.
    - You ignore any cold immunity a target has and automatically get a Tier 3 on any attacks against a target with cold
      weakness.

#### METAKINETIC MASTERY

You gain a bonus to Stability equal to your Intuition score.

**Discipline Benefit**

- **3**
    - When you use the Inertial Shield triggered action, you can push the triggering attacker a number of squares equal
      to your Intuition.
    - You gain (SHIELD).

- **6**  
	- Whenever you use the Inertial Shield triggered action, you can push a creature of your choice within your Null Field a
  number of squares equal to your Intuition and make them suffer a [weak] version of any effect you beat using that
  triggered action.

- **9**  
	- You gain (SHIELD) and do (SURGE) to any targets you force move.

- **12 (Level 4)**  
	- Whenever you use the Inertial Shield triggered action, you can push a creature of your choice within your Null Field a
  number of squares equal to twice your Intuition and make them suffer an [average] version of any effect you beat using
  that triggered action.

- **15 (Level 7)**  
	- You gain (SHIELD)(SHIELD) and do (SURGE)(SURGE) to any targets you force move.

- **18 (Level 10)**
    - Whenever you use the Inertial Shield triggered action, you can push a creature of your choice within your Null
      Field a number of squares equal to triple your Intuition and make them suffer a [strong] version of any effect you
      beat using that triggered action.
    - You add your Intuition to any forced movement effects you apply.

### MIND-BODY FOCUS

Your training has turned your body into the perfect psionic weapon, even beyond that of a trained martial artist.
Through psionic meditation, you have created pathways in your mind that enhance your statistics. You can choose one of
the following focuses. You can change your focus by undergoing a psionic meditation as a respite activity.

- **Speed Focus:** Your speed increases by 1, and when you take the Disengage move action, you can shift 1 extra square.
- **Force Focus:** When you deal damage with a Psionic ability, the damage dealt increases by 1.
- **Strength Focus:** Your Stamina increases by 3 and stability increases by 1.

### PSIONIC KNOCKBACK

You can use Intuition instead of Might when making the Knockback maneuver.

### NULL ABILITIES

You use a blend of martial techniques and psionics to attack your foes and defend your allies.

#### SIGNATURE ABILITY

Select two signature abilities from the options below. Signature abilities can be used at will.

##### DANCE OF BLOWS

> You strike everywhere at once, tricking an enemy into moving out of position.

- **Keywords:** Area, Melee, Psionic, Weapon  
- **Type:** Action  
- **Distance:** 1 burst  
- **Target:** All enemies

**Power Roll + Agility:**

- 11 or lower: 3 damage
- 12-16: 4 damage
- 17+: 5 damage


**Effect:** You can slide one adjacent enemy your Intuition score in squares.

##### FASTER THAN THE EYE

> You strike so quickly your hands become a blur.

- **Keywords:** Attack, Melee, Psionic, Weapon  
- **Type:** Action  
- **Distance:** Melee 1  
- **Target:** 2 creatures or objects

**Power Roll + Agility:**

- 11 or lower: 3 damage
- 12-16: 4 damage
- 17+: 5 damage


**Effect:** You deal (SURGE) damage to an adjacent creature or object.

##### JOINT LOCK

> You strengthen your body as you contort your enemy’s body in a stance they cannot escape from.

- **Keywords:** Attack, Melee, Psionic, Weapon  
- **Type:** Action  
- **Distance:** Melee 1  
- **Target:** 1 creature or object

**Power Roll + Agility:**

- 11 or lower: 4 damage; A [weak] grabbed
- 12-16: 5 damage; A [average] grabbed
- 17+: 7 damage; A [strong] grabbed

##### KINETIC STRIKE

> Your opponent staggers. They cannot ignore you.

- **Keywords:** Attack, Melee, Psionic, Weapon  
- **Type:** Action  
- **Distance:** Melee 1  
- **Target:** 1 creature or object

**Power Roll + Agility:**

- 11 or lower: 4 damage; taunted (EoT)
- 12-16: 5 damage; taunted (EoT); slide 1
- 17+: 6 damage; taunted (EoT); slide 2

##### MAGNETIC STRIKE

> The force of your blow extends past the limits of your body, and pulls your enemy closer.

- **Keywords:** Attack, Melee, Psionic, Weapon  
- **Type:** Action  
- **Distance:** Melee 2  
- **Target:** 1 creature or object

**Power Roll + Agility:**

- 11 or lower: 4 psychic damage; pull 1
- 12-16: 7 psychic damage; pull 2
- 17+: 9 psychic damage; pull 3

##### PRESSURE POINTS

> You strike at key nerve clusters.

- **Keywords:** Attack, Melee, Psionic, Weapon  
- **Type:** Action  
- **Distance:** Melee 1  
- **Target:** 1 creature or object

**Power Roll + Agility:**

- 11 or lower: 4 damage; A [weak] weakened (save ends)
- 12-16: 5 damage; A [average] weakened (save ends)
- 17+: 7 damage; A [strong] weakened (save ends)

#### HEROIC ABILITIES

You know abilities that cost discipline to use called heroic abilities.

##### 3-DISCIPLINE ABILITIES

Choose one heroic ability from the following options.

###### ANTICIPATING STRIKE (3 DISCIPLINE)

> You foresee the best moment to strike and exploit it.

- **Keywords:** Attack, Melee, Psionic, Weapon  
- **Type:** Action  
- **Distance:** Melee 1  
- **Target:** 1 creature or object

**Power Roll + Agility:**

- 11 or lower: 7 damage
- 12-16: 10 damage
- 17+: 13 damage


**Effect:** You can shift half your speed, before or after you make the attack. You can use this ability instead of a
free strike or a signature ability whenever an effect gives you one, though you still must pay its Discipline cost.

###### PSYCHIC PULSE (3 DISCIPLINE)

> You release a burst of psionic energy that interferes with your enemy's synapses.

- **Keywords:** Area, Psionic  
- **Type:** Maneuver  
- **Distance:** 2 burst  
- **Target:** All enemies


**Effect:** Each target takes (SURGE)(SURGE) psychic damage. Until the beginning of your next turn, your Null Field distance
increases by 1, and each enemy that starts their turn in the aura takes your (SURGE) psychic damage.

###### RELENTLESS NEMESIS (3 DISCIPLINE)

> You strike, and for the next few moments, your enemy can't escape you.

- **Keywords:** Attack, Melee, Psionic, Weapon  
- **Type:** Action  
- **Distance:** Melee 1  
- **Target:** 1 creature or object

**Power Roll + Agility:**

- 11 or lower: 6 damage
- 12-16: 8 damage
- 17+: 12 damage


**Effect:** Until the beginning of your next turn, whenever the target moves, you can shift up to your speed as a free
triggered action, as long as you end that shift adjacent to the target.

###### STUNNING BLOW (3 DISCIPLINE)

> You focus your psionic technique into a debilitating concussive punch.

- **Keywords:** Attack, Melee, Psionic, Weapon  
- **Type:** Action  
- **Distance:** Melee 1  
- **Target:** 1 creature or object

**Power Roll + Agility:**

- 11 or lower: 4 damage; I [weak] slowed (save ends); I [weak] dazed (save ends)
- 12-16: 5 damage; I [average] slowed (save ends); I [average] dazed (save ends)
- 17+: 7 damage; I [strong] slowed (save ends); I [strong] dazed (save ends)

##### 5-DISCIPLINE ABILITIES

Choose one heroic ability from the following options.

###### ARCANE DISRUPTOR (5 DISCIPLINE)

> Your blow reorders their body, causing pain if they attempt to channel sorcery.

- **Keywords:** Attack, Melee, Psionic, Weapon  
- **Type:** Action  
- **Distance:** Melee 1  
- **Target:** 1 creature

**Power Roll + Agility:**

- 11 or lower: 8 psychic damage; M [weak] weakened (save ends)
- 12-16: 12 psychic damage; M [average] weakened (save ends)
- 17+: 16 psychic damage; M [strong] weakened (save ends)


**Effect:** While weakened, the target takes (SURGE) psychic damage whenever they use an ability with the Magic keyword.

###### IMPART FORCE (5 DISCIPLINE)

> A single touch from you and your enemy flies backward.

- **Keywords:** Attack, Melee, Psionic, Weapon  
- **Type:** Maneuver  
- **Distance:** Melee 1  
- **Target:** 1 creature or object

**Power Roll + Intuition:**

- 11 or lower: push 3
- 12-16: push 5
- 17+: push 7


**Effect:** You have an edge on this attack. The target takes 1 psychic damage for each square they move through.

###### PHASE STRIKE (5 DISCIPLINE)

> For a moment, your foe is out of phase with this manifold.

- **Keywords:** Attack, Melee, Psionic, Weapon  
- **Type:** Action  
- **Distance:** Melee 1  
- **Target:** 1 creature

**Power Roll + Agility:**

- 11 or lower: 3 psychic damage; I [weak] suffer effect and slowed (save ends) when returned
- 12-16: 4 psychic damage; I [average] suffer effect and slowed (save ends) when returned
- 17+: 6 psychic damage; I [strong] suffer effect and slowed (save ends) when returned


**Effect:** The target is removed from the encounter until the end of their next turn, appearing where they were removed
or in the closest available space of the Director’s choice.

###### A SQUAD UNTO MYSELF (5 DISCIPLINE)

> You move so quickly, it seems as though an army assaulted your foes.

- **Keywords:** Area, Melee, Psionic, Weapon  
- **Type:** Action  
- **Distance:** 2 burst  
- **Target:** All enemies

**Power Roll + Agility:**

- 11 or lower: 6 damage
- 12-16: 9 damage
- 17+: 13 damage


**Effect:** You can take the Disengage move action as a free triggered action before or after you make this attack.

## 2ND-LEVEL FEATURES

As a 2nd-level null, you gain the following features.

### PERK

You gain an exploration, interpersonal, or intrigue perk of your choice. See Perks for more information.

### 2ND-LEVEL TRADITION FEATURES

As a 2nd-level null, you gain the following features based on your Tradition.

| Tradition     | Feature                             |
|---------------|-------------------------------------|
| Chronokinetic | Extra Surge, Rapid Processing       |
| Cryokinetic   | Entropic Adaptability, Extra Shield |
| Metakinetic   | Extra Shield, Inertial Sink         |

#### ENTROPIC ADAPTABILITY

- You ignore difficult terrain from cold and ice effects and gain the climb keyword for your movement.
- You have cold immunity equal to twice your Intuition score.

#### EXTRA SHIELD

- Your (SHIELD) limit increases by 1, for a maximum of (SHIELD)(SHIELD)(SHIELD)(SHIELD).

#### EXTRA SURGE

- Your (SURGE) limit increases by 1, for a maximum of (SURGE)(SURGE)(SURGE)(SURGE).

#### INERTIAL SINK

- You add your Intuition to your size for the purpose of interacting with creatures and objects, such as resisting
  forced movement or lifting objects.
- You always have (SHIELD)(SHIELD) against forced movement damage and falling damage.

#### RAPID PROCESSING

- You can read an entire book as a maneuver.
- You can take a bonus respite activity.

### 2ND-LEVEL TRADITION ABILITY

Your specialization grants your choice of one of two abilities.

#### 2ND-LEVEL CHRONOKINETIC ABILITIES

Choose one of the following abilities.

##### BLUR (5 DISCIPLINE)

> You release some stored time, allowing you to act twice.

- **Keywords:** Psionic  
- **Type:** Maneuver  
- **Distance:** Self  
- **Target:** Self


**Effect:** You can use a signature or heroic ability with an attack action as a free triggered action. You have an edge
on attack rolls with this action.

##### FORCE REDIRECTED (5 DISCIPLINE)

> The force of your strike manifests in a surprising location.

- **Keywords:** Attack, Melee, Psionic, Weapon  
- **Type:** Action  
- **Distance:** Reach 3  
- **Target:** 1 creature

**Power Roll + Agility:**

- 11 or lower: 8 damage; slide 1
- 12-16: 12 damage; slide 3
- 17+: 16 damage; slide 5

Draw Steel © 2024 MCDM Productions, LLC

#### 2ND-LEVEL CRYOKINETIC ABILITIES

Choose one of the following abilities.

##### ENTROPIC FIELD (5 DISCIPLINE)

> You drastically increase the local entropy.

- **Keywords:** Area, Psionic, Weapon  
- **Type:** Action  
- **Distance:** 3 cube within 1  
- **Target:** All enemies

**Power Roll + Agility:**

- 11 or lower: 6 cold damage; A [weak] slowed (save ends)
- 12-16: 9 cold damage; A [average] slowed (save ends)
- 17+: 13 cold damage; A [strong] slowed (save ends)

##### HEAT SINK (5 DISCIPLINE)

> You absorb the ambient heat, coating the ground in frost and precipitating snow from the air.

- **Keywords:** Psionic  
- **Type:** Maneuver  
- **Distance:** Self  
- **Target:** Self


**Effect:** Until the beginning of your next turn, your nullification aura distance increases by 1. Enemies treat the
aura as difficult terrain, you and your allies benefit from concealment while in the aura, and enemies take (SURGE) cold
damage when they start their turn in the aura.

#### 2ND-LEVEL METAKINETIC ABILITIES

Choose one of the following abilities.

##### GRAVITIC STRIKE (5 DISCIPLINE)

> Your fist projects gravitic force that pulls a distant enemy closer.

- **Keywords:** Attack, Melee, Psionic, Weapon  
- **Type:** Action  
- **Distance:** Melee 3  
- **Target:** 1 creature

**Power Roll + Agility:**

- 11 or lower: 8 psychic damage; pull 3
- 12-16: 12 psychic damage; pull 5
- 17+: 16 psychic damage; pull 7

##### KINETIC SHIELD (5 DISCIPLINE)

> You manifest a force barrier that absorbs incoming kinetic energy.

- **Keywords:** Psionic  
- **Type:** Maneuver  
- **Distance:** Self  
- **Target:** Self

**Power Roll + Intuition:**

- 11 or lower: gain 10 Temporary Stamina
- 12-16: gain 15 Temporary Stamina
- 17+: gain 20 Temporary Stamina


**Effect:** While you have Temporary Stamina, you are immune to the negative effects of bleeding. This Temporary Stamina
disappears at the end of the encounter.

## 3RD-LEVEL FEATURES

As a 3rd-level null, you gain the following features.

### REORDER

> As a free triggered action, at the beginning of your turn you can end one effect on you or another creature within
> your Null Field.

### 7-DISCIPLINE ABILITIES

Choose one heroic ability from the following options.

#### ABSORPTION FIELD (7 DISCIPLINE)

> Your null field absorbs kinetic energy.

- **Keywords:** Psionic  
- **Type:** Maneuver  
- **Distance:** Self  
- **Target:** Self


**Effect:** Until the end of the encounter, the area of your null field increases to 2 aura, adds a bane to all enemy
attacks in the aura, and you and all allies gain (SHIELD) while in the aura.

#### MOLECULAR REARRANGEMENT FIELD (7 DISCIPLINE)

> Your enemies' wounds open, your allies' wounds close.

- **Keywords:** Psionic  
- **Type:** Maneuver  
- **Distance:** Self  
- **Target:** Self


**Effect:** Until the end of the encounter, the area of your null field increases to 2 aura. Enemies that enter your
null field or begin their turn in it suffer I [average] bleeding (save ends). Allies that enter your null field or begin
their turn in it gain Temporary Stamina equal to their (SHIELD). This Temporary Stamina disappears at the end of the
encounter.

#### STABILIZING FIELD (7 DISCIPLINE)

> You project order, making it harder for your enemies to interfere with you and your allies.

- **Keywords:** Psionic  
- **Type:** Maneuver  
- **Distance:** Self  
- **Target:** Self


**Effect:** Until the end of the encounter, the area of your null field increases to 2 aura. While affected by this
aura, you and your allies ignore difficult terrain, reduce potency of enemy effects that target them by 1, and remove a
condition or effect that is affecting them as a free triggered action at the beginning of their turns.

#### SYNAPSE FIELD (7 ZEAL)

> Attacks made by allies in your null-field disrupt your enemies' thoughts, causing psychic pain.

- **Keywords:** Psionic  
- **Type:** Maneuver  
- **Distance:** Self  
- **Target:** Self


**Effect:** Until the end of the encounter, the area of your null field increases to 2 aura. Any attacks against enemies
in the aura do (SURGE)(SURGE) psychic damage.

# SHADOW

Subtlety is your art, the tip of the blade your brush. You studied at a secret college, specializing in alchemy,
illusion, or shadow-magics. Your training and knowledge place you among the elite assassins, spies, and commandos. But
more powerful than any weapon or sorcery is your insight into your enemy’s weakness.

As a shadow, you have abilities that deal a lot of damage, let you move swiftly across the battlefield and away from
hazards, and allow you to fade from notice even in the middle of the most heated combat encounter. You also possess more
skills than any other hero.

## BASICS

**Starting Characteristics:** You start with an Agility of 2, and can choose one of the following arrays for your other
characteristics scores:

- 2, 2, -1, -1
- 2, 1, 1, -1
- 2, 1, 0, 0
- 1, 1, 1, 0

**Weak Potency:** Agility score - 1  
**Average Potency:** Agility score  
**Strong Potency:** Agility score + 1  
**Starting Stamina at 1st Level:** 18  
**Stamina Gained at 2nd and Higher Levels:** 9  
**Recoveries:** 8  
**Skills:** Hide and Sneak, plus choose any five skills from Criminal Underworld or the skills of the exploration,
interpersonal, or intrigue skill groups.

### SHADOW ADVANCEMENT

| Level | Features                                                                                                                    | Abilities |  
|-------|-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|-----------|  
| 1st   | Shadow College, Insight, College Feature, College Triggered Action, Hesitation is Weakness, Kit, Shadow Abilities Signature | 3, 5      |  
| 2nd   | College Feature, Extra Surge, Perk, College Ability Signature                                                               | 3, 5, 5   |  
| 3rd   | Careful Observation, Insight Ability Signature                                                                              | 3, 5, 7   |  

## 1ST-LEVEL FEATURES

As a shadow, you gain the following features.

### SHADOW COLLEGE

Shadow colleges are secret institutions that turn ordinary folk into something else. Finding a college is the first step
in a rigorous initiation process that tests the mettle of an applicant. Even those who make the cut often wash out—or
are kicked out—as the master shadows who teach stealth, magic, and assassination to their students are often less than
gentle in their approach.

You are one of the few who has graduated from a shadow college, chosen from the following options:

- **College of Black Ash:** The College of Black Ash founded the art of being a shadow. Its graduates use Black Ash
  sorcery to teleport around the battlefield in clouds of soot, and to manipulate and create darkness. Graduates of the
  college are unmatched in mobility. You gain the Magic skill.
- **College of Caustic Alchemy:** The College of Caustic Alchemy teaches its students recipes for the acids, bombs, and
  poisons used in their grim work. Graduates of the college are exceptional assassins. You gain the Alchemy skill.
- **College of the Harlequin Mask:** Graduates of the College of the Harlequin Mask learn illusion magic, which they use
  to infiltrate enemy strongholds and create orchestrated chaos in combat. You gain the Lie skill.

Your choice of shadow college determines many of the features you’ll gain from this class.

### INSIGHT

By observing your enemy, you learn how to use their weaknesses against them. You have a Heroic Resource called insight.

#### INSIGHT IN COMBAT

When combat begins, gain insight equal to your Victories. At the start of each of your turns during combat, you gain 1d3
insight. Additionally, the first time each round that you deal damage with an ability that has a power roll and at least
one (SURGE), you gain 1 insight.

When combat ends, you lose all of your insight.

Your heroic abilities that have a power roll cost 1 less insight for each edge you have on the ability power roll (
maximum of 2). If the ability has multiple targets, the cost is reduced by the highest amount of edges you have that
applies to one target. Banes don’t subtract from edges for the purpose of reducing the insight cost of heroic abilities.

#### INSIGHT OUTSIDE OF COMBAT

Though you can’t gain insight outside of combat, you can use your heroic abilities and effects that cost insight without
spending it. Whenever you use an ability or effect that costs insight outside of combat, you can’t use that same ability
or effect again outside of combat again until you gain at least 1 Victory or finish a Respite.

If you use an ability that lets you spend unlimited insight on its effect, such as Black Ash Teleport, out of combat,
you can use it as if you had spent an amount of insight on it equal to your Victories.

### 1ST-LEVEL COLLEGE FEATURES

Your choice of college grants you one or two features, as shown on the 1st-Level Shadow College Features table.

#### 1ST-LEVEL SHADOW COLLEGE FEATURES

| College         | Feature                    |  
|-----------------|----------------------------|  
| Black Ash       | Black Ash Teleport         |  
| Caustic Alchemy | Coat the Blade, Smoke Bomb |  
| Harlequin Mask  | I'm On Your Side           |  

#### BLACK ASH TELEPORT

You gain the following ability.

##### BLACK ASH TELEPORT

In a swirl of black ash, you step from one place to another. 

- **Keywords:** Magic  
- **Type:** Maneuver  
- **Distance:** Self  
- **Target:** Self


**Effect:** You teleport up to 5 squares. If you end this movement in concealment or cover, you can use the Hide
maneuver even if you are observed. If you attack another creature while hidden from this ability or on the same turn
after using this ability, the attack gains (SURGE).


**Spend Insight:** You teleport 1 additional square for each insight spent.

#### COAT THE BLADE

You gain the following ability.

##### COAT THE BLADE

Just a little poison goes a long way. 

- **Keywords:** —  
- **Type:** Maneuver  
- **Distance:** Self  
- **Target:** Self


**Effect:** You coat one of your weapons with a harmful poison. The next creature you damage with an ability that uses
that weapon takes (SURGE) poison damage. The poison loses its potency after you damage the creature or at the end of the
encounter.


**Spend Insight:** For each insight you spend, add (SURGE) to the effect.

#### I'M ON YOUR SIDE

You gain the following ability.

##### I'M ON YOUR SIDE

Taking on the illusory countenance of another creature gives you an advantage on subterfuge. 

- **Keywords:** Magic  
- **Type:** Maneuver  
- **Distance:** Self  
- **Target:** Self


**Effect:** Choose a creature whose size is no more than 1 greater than yours, and who is within 10 squares of you. Your
body is covered in an illusion that makes you appear to be that creature. This illusion covers your entire body,
including clothing and armor, and changes your voice to sound like the creature. While this illusion lasts, you gain an
edge and (SURGE) on attacks against the creature’s allies. You also gain an edge on tests made to convince that creature’s
allies that you are the creature who you appear to be. These benefits don’t apply against the creature whose appearance
you’ve taken on. The illusion ends when you harm another creature, when you and another creature physically interact,
when you use this ability again, or when you end the illusion (no action required).

#### SMOKE BOMB

You always carry a supply of smoke bombs to make it easy for you to distract and get away from foes. You can use the
Hide maneuver even if you are observed and don’t start in cover or concealment. If you do, you can shift a number of
squares equal to your Agility. If you end this movement in cover or concealment, you are hidden.

### COLLEGE TRIGGERED ACTION

Your college grants you a triggered action, as shown on the Shadow Triggered Actions table.

#### SHADOW TRIGGERED ACTIONS

| College         | Triggered Action      |  
|-----------------|-----------------------|  
| Black Ash       | In All This Confusion |  
| Caustic Alchemy | Defensive Roll        |  
| Harlequin Mask  | Clever Trick          |  

##### CLEVER TRICK (1 INSIGHT)

You sow a moment of confusion in combat, to your enemy’s peril. 

- **Keywords:** Magic  
- **Type:** Triggered  
- **Distance:** Self  
- **Target:** Self

- **Trigger:** An enemy attacks you.  

**Effect:** You choose an enemy within distance of the attack. The attack targets that enemy instead.

##### DEFENSIVE ROLL

When an enemy attacks, you roll with the impact to reduce the harm. 

- **Keywords:** —  
- **Type:** Triggered  
- **Distance:** Self  
- **Target:** Self

- **Trigger:** Another creature damages you.  

**Effect:** You gain (SHIELD) against the triggering damage and then can shift up to 2 squares after the damage and its
effects resolve. If you end this movement with concealment or cover, you can use the Hide maneuver even if you are
observed.


**Spend 1 Insight:** You gain (SHIELD)(SHIELD) against the triggering damage instead.

##### IN ALL THIS CONFUSION

You vanish in a plume of black smoke to avoid danger. 

- **Keywords:** Magic  
- **Type:** Triggered  
- **Distance:** Self  
- **Target:** Self

- **Trigger:** You take damage.  

**Effect:** You gain (SHIELD) against the triggering damage and then can teleport up to 4 squares after the damage and its
effects resolve.


**Spend Insight:** You teleport 1 additional square for each insight spent.

### HESITATION IS WEAKNESS

You know how to seize the advantage in battle, working with your allies to find the perfect moment to strike. You have
the following ability.

#### HESITATION IS WEAKNESS (1 INSIGHT)

Keep up the attack. Never give them a moment's grace. 

- **Keywords:** —  
- **Type:** Free triggered action  
- **Distance:** Self  
- **Target:** Self

- **Trigger:** Another hero who didn’t use this ability to start their turn ends their turn.  

**Effect:** You take your turn after the triggering hero.

### KIT

You can use and gain the benefits of a kit. See the Kits chapter for more information.

### SHADOW ABILITIES

You specialize in dealing damage, then getting out of harm’s way before the inevitable counterattack. You know a number
of unique martial abilities that define your presence on the battlefield.

#### SIGNATURE ABILITY

Select one signature ability from the options below. Signature abilities can be used at will.

##### GASPING IN PAIN

Your precise strikes let your allies take advantage of a target’s agony. 

- **Keywords:** Attack, Melee, Ranged, Weapon  
- **Type:** Action  
- **Distance:** Melee 1  
- **Target:** 1 creature

**Power Roll + Agility:**

- 11 or lower: 2 damage
- 12–16: 4 damage
- 17+: 6 damage; I [strong] prone


**Effect:** The next ability that damages the target before the start of your next turn gains (SURGE).

##### I WORK BETTER ALONE

It's better, just you and me. Isn't it? 

- **Keywords:** Attack, Melee, Ranged, Weapon  
- **Type:** Action  
- **Distance:** Melee 1 or Ranged 5  
- **Target:** 1 creature

**Power Roll + Agility:**

- 11 or lower: 2 damage
- 12–16: 5 damage
- 17+: 7 damage


**Effect:** If the target has no allies adjacent to them, you gain (SURGE) on the attack.

##### TEAMWORK HAS ITS PLACE

You fire a bolt at an enemy, distracting them long enough for an ally to stab them. 

- **Keywords:** Attack, Ranged, Weapon  
- **Type:** Action  
- **Distance:** Ranged 5  
- **Target:** 1 creature or object

**Power Roll + Agility:**

- 11 or lower: 3 damage
- 12–16: 5 damage
- 17+: 8 damage


**Effect:** If an ally is adjacent to the target, the target takes additional (SURGE) damage.

##### YOU WERE WATCHING THE WRONG ONE

They can't watch both of you at once. 

- **Keywords:** Attack, Melee, Weapon  
- **Type:** Action  
- **Distance:** Melee 1  
- **Target:** 1 creature

**Power Roll + Agility:**

- 11 or lower: 3 damage
- 12–16: 6 damage
- 17+: 9 damage


**Effect:** If you are flanking the target when you make this attack, choose one ally who is flanking with you. That
ally has (SURGE) on melee attacks against the target until the end of the ally’s next turn, even if they are no longer
flanking the target.

#### HEROIC ABILITIES

A range of heroic abilities define your combat prowess, all of which make use of your insight.

##### 3-INSIGHT ABILITIES

Choose one heroic ability from the following options, each of which costs 3 insight to use.

###### DISORIENTING STRIKE (3 INSIGHT)

Your attack leaves them reeling, allowing you to follow up. 

- **Keywords:** Attack, Melee, Weapon  
- **Type:** Action  
- **Distance:** Melee 1  
- **Target:** 1 creature

**Power Roll + Agility:**

- 11 or lower: 4 damage; slide 2
- 12–16: 6 damage; slide 3
- 17+: 10 damage; slide 5


**Effect:** You can shift into squares the target leaves behind when you force move them.

###### EVISCERATE (3 INSIGHT)

You leave your foe bleeding out after a devastating attack. 

- **Keywords:** Attack, Melee, Ranged, Weapon  
- **Type:** Action  
- **Distance:** Melee 1 or Ranged 5  
- **Target:** 1 creature

**Power Roll + Agility:**

- 11 or lower: 4 damage; A [weak] bleeding (save ends)
- 12–16: 6 damage; A [average] bleeding (save ends)
- 17+: 10 damage; A [strong] bleeding (save ends)

###### GET IN, GET OUT (3 INSIGHT)

Move unexpectedly, strike fast, and be gone! 

- **Keywords:** Attack, Melee, Weapon  
- **Type:** Action  
- **Distance:** Melee 1  
- **Target:** 1 creature

**Power Roll + Agility:**

- 11 or lower: 5 damage
- 12–16: 8 damage
- 17+: 11 damage


**Effect:** You can shift up to your speed. You can shift before or after your attack, or split your movement before and
after your attack.

###### TWO THROATS AT ONCE (3 INSIGHT)

A bargain. 

- **Keywords:** Attack, Melee, Ranged, Weapon  
- **Type:** Action  
- **Distance:** Melee 1 or Ranged 5  
- **Target:** 2 creatures or objects

**Power Roll + Agility:**

- 11 or lower: 4 damage
- 12–16: 6 damage
- 17+: 10 damage

##### 5-INSIGHT ABILITIES

Choose one heroic ability from the following options, each of which costs 5 insight to use.

###### COUP DE GRACE (5 INSIGHT)

Your blade might be the last thing they see. 

- **Keywords:** Attack, Melee, Weapon  
- **Type:** Action  
- **Distance:** Melee 1 or Ranged 5  
- **Target:** 1 creature

**Power Roll + Agility:**

- 11 or lower: 1d6 + 7 damage
- 12–16: 1d6 + 11 damage
- 17+: 1d6 + 16 damage

###### ONE HUNDRED THROATS (5 INSIGHT)

As you move across the battlefield, every foe within reach feels your wrath. 

- **Keywords:** Attack, Melee, Weapon  
- **Type:** Action  
- **Distance:** Self  
- **Target:** Self


**Effect:** You move up to your speed, and that movement doesn’t provoke opportunity attacks. You make one power roll
that targets each enemy who becomes adjacent to you during the move.

**Power Roll + Agility:**

- 11 or lower: 3 damage
- 12–16: 6 damage
- 17+: 9 damage

###### SET-UP (5 INSIGHT)

Your friends will thank you. 

- **Keywords:** Attack, Ranged, Weapon  
- **Type:** Action  
- **Distance:** Ranged 5  
- **Target:** 1 creature

**Power Roll + Agility:**

- 11 or lower: 6 damage; R [weak] When the target takes damage from an ability, the ability gains (SURGE) (save ends)
- 12–16: 9 damage; R [average] When the target takes damage from an ability, the ability gains (SURGE)(SURGE) (save ends)
- 17+: 13 damage; R [strong] When the target takes damage from an ability, the ability gains (SURGE)(SURGE)(SURGE) (save ends)

###### SHADOWSTRIKE (5 INSIGHT)

They have no idea what the college taught you. 

- **Keywords:** Magic  
- **Type:** Action  
- **Distance:** Self  
- **Target:** Self


**Effect:** You make two signature attacks and each gains (SURGE).

## 2ND-LEVEL FEATURES

As a 2nd-level shadow, you gain the following features.

### 2ND-LEVEL COLLEGE FEATURE

Your specialization grants you a feature as shown on the 2nd-Level Shadow College Features table.

#### 2ND-LEVEL SHADOW COLLEGE FEATURES

| Specialization  | Feature          |  
|-----------------|------------------|  
| Black Ash       | Burning Ash      |  
| Caustic Alchemy | Trained Assassin |  
| Harlequin Mask  | Friend!          |  

#### BURNING ASH

Whenever you teleport away from or into a space adjacent to an enemy, that enemy takes (SURGE) fire damage.

#### FRIEND!

Whenever an enemy creature uses an ability or trait that targets multiple allies and you are within distance of the
effect, you can choose to be a target of the effect as well.

#### TRAINED ASSASSIN

Whenever you make an attack with at least one (SURGE) and no banes against a target, the attack gains an extra (SURGE).

### EXTRA SURGE

Your (SURGE) limit increases by 1, for a maximum of (SURGE)(SURGE)(SURGE)(SURGE).

Draw Steel © 2024 MCDM Productions, LLC

### PERK

You gain an exploration, interpersonal, or intrigue perk of your choice. See Perks for more information.

### 2ND-LEVEL COLLEGE ABILITY

Your specialization grants your choice of one of two abilities.

#### 2ND-LEVEL BLACK ASH ABILITIES

Choose one of the following abilities.

##### IN A PUFF OF ASH (5 INSIGHT)

You enchant a strike with your teleportation magic.

- **Keywords:** Attack, Magic, Ranged, Weapon  
- **Type:** Action  
- **Distance:** Melee 1 or Ranged 5  
- **Target:** 1 creature

**Power Roll + Agility:**

- 11 or lower: 6 damage; teleport target 1 square
- 12-16: 10 damage; teleport target 3 squares
- 17+: 14 damage; teleport target 5 squares

##### TOO SLOW (5 INSIGHT)

Your foe made a big mistake.

- **Keywords:** Attack, Melee, Ranged, Weapon  
- **Type:** Free Triggered Action  
- **Distance:** Self  
- **Target:** Special

- **Trigger:** You use In All This Confusion.  

**Effect:** You gain an additional (SHIELD) against the triggering attack. Before you teleport, you can make a free strike
against a creature who damaged you to trigger In All This Confusion. After you teleport, you can spend a Recovery.

#### 2ND-LEVEL CAUSTIC ALCHEMY ABILITIES

Choose one of the following abilities.

##### STICKY BOMB (5 INSIGHT)

Explosives are best when they’re attached to an enemy.

- **Keywords:** Ranged  
- **Type:** Action  
- **Distance:** Ranged 10  
- **Target:** 1 creature


**Effect:** You attach a small bomb to a creature. If you are hidden from the creature, they don’t notice it and you
remain hidden. If they notice the bomb, the creature can remove it as an action. At the end of your next turn, the bomb
detonates. You can detonate it earlier as no action. When it detonates, make one power roll targeting each enemy within
3 squares of the bomb.

**Power Roll + Agility:**

- 11 or lower: 4 fire damage
- 12-16: 7 fire damage
- 17+: 11 fire damage

##### STINK BOMB (5 INSIGHT)

Yellow, disgusting gas explodes from a bomb you toss.

- **Keywords:** Area, Ranged  
- **Type:** Action  
- **Distance:** 3 cube within 10  
- **Target:** All creatures

**Power Roll + Agility:**

- 11 or lower: 2 poison damage
- 12-16: 5 poison damage
- 17+: 7 poison damage


**Effect:** The gas remains in the area until the end of the encounter. A creature who starts their turn in the area is
M [average] weakened (save ends).

#### 2ND-LEVEL HARLEQUIN MASK ABILITIES

Choose one of the following abilities.

##### MACHINATIONS OF SOUND (5 INSIGHT)

Illusory sounds make your foes reposition themselves as they cower or investigate the disturbance.

- **Keywords:** Area, Magic, Ranged  
- **Type:** Maneuver  
- **Distance:** 3 cube within 10  
- **Target:** All enemies within

**Power Roll + Agility:**

- 11 or lower: slide 4
- 12-16: slide 5
- 17+: slide 7


**Effect:** This movement ignores Stability. Instead, the forced movement is reduced by a number equal to the target’s
Intuition score.

##### SO GULLIBLE (5 INSIGHT)

When your enemy strikes, you reveal you were in a different place all along.

- **Keywords:** Attack, Melee, Ranged, Magic, Weapon  
- **Type:** Free Triggered Action

- **Trigger:** You use Clever Trick.  

**Effect:** Clever Trick doesn’t cost insight to use. The creature who attacked you actually just attacked an illusory
image of you. You appear in an unoccupied space within 3 squares of that creature and can make a free strike against
them and spend a Recovery.

## 3RD-LEVEL FEATURES

As a 3rd-level shadow, you gain the following features.

### CAREFUL OBSERVATION

Given the chance to watch your foe, you can assess their vulnerabilities and pick the perfect moment to strike. As a
maneuver, you observe and take aim at a creature within 20 squares of you. If you do, you gain an edge on the next
attack you make against that foe and the attack deals an extra (SURGE) damage, provided you attack no other creature before
attacking the one you observe, stay within 20 squares of them, and don’t lose line of effect to them. You can stack the
effects of this feature on a single creature up to four times.

### 7-INSIGHT ABILITIES

Choose one heroic ability from the following options.

#### DANCER (7 INSIGHT)

You enter a flow state that makes you nearly impossible to pin down.

- **Keywords:** —  
- **Type:** Maneuver  
- **Distance:** Self  
- **Target:** Self


**Effect:** Until the end of the encounter, whenever an enemy moves to a space adjacent to you or damages you, you can
take the Disengage action as a free triggered action.

#### MISDIRECTING STRIKE (7 INSIGHT)

Why are you looking at ME?!

- **Keywords:** Attack, Melee, Ranged, Weapon  
- **Type:** Action  
- **Distance:** Melee 1 or Ranged 5  
- **Target:** 1 creature

**Power Roll + Agility:**

- 11 or lower: 9 damage
- 12-16: 13 damage
- 17+: 18 damage


**Effect:** The target is taunted by a willing ally of your choice within distance (EoT).

#### PINNING SHOT (7 INSIGHT)

One missile—placed well and placed hard.

- **Keywords:** Attack, Ranged, Weapon  
- **Type:** Action  
- **Distance:** Ranged 5  
- **Target:** 1 creature

**Power Roll + Agility:**

- 11 or lower: 8 damage; A [weak] restrained (save ends)
- 12-16: 12 damage; A [average] restrained (save ends)
- 17+: 16 damage; A [strong] restrained (save ends)

#### STAGGERING BLOW (7 INSIGHT)

There’s no recovering from this.

- **Keywords:** Attack, Melee, Ranged, Weapon  
- **Type:** Action  
- **Distance:** Melee 1 or Ranged 5  
- **Target:** 1 creature

**Power Roll + Agility:**

- 11 or lower: 7 damage; M [weak] slowed (save ends)
- 12-16: 11 damage; M [average] prone and can’t stand (save ends)
- 17+: 16 damage; M [strong] prone and can’t stand (save ends)

# TACTICIAN

Strategist. Defender. Leader. With sword in hand, you lead allies into the maw of battle, barking out commands that
inspire your fellow heroes to move faster and strike more precisely. All the while, you stand between your compatriots
and death, taunting the followers of evil to best you if they can.

As a tactician, you have abilities that heal your allies and grant them extra damage, movement, and attacks. You can
taunt your enemies into attacking you instead of targeting your allies, and can help soak up damage when those allies
stand alone.

## BASICS

**Starting Characteristics:** You start with a Might of 2 and a Reason of 2, and can choose one of the following arrays
for your other characteristics scores:

- 2, −1, −1
- 1, 1, −1
- 1, 0, 0

**Weak Potency:** Reason score - 1  
**Average Potency:** Reason score  
**Strong Potency:** Reason score + 1

**Starting Stamina at 1st Level:** 21  
**Stamina Gained at 2nd and Higher Levels:** 12

**Recoveries:** 10

**Skills:** Lead, plus choose any two skills from Alertness, Architecture, Blacksmithing, Brag, Culture, Empathize,
Fletching, History, Mechanics, Monsters, Search, or the skills of the exploration skill group.

### TACTICIAN ADVANCEMENT

| Level | Features                                                                                                            | Abilities | Doctrine Abilities |
|-------|---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|-----------|--------------------|
| 1st   | Tactical Doctrine, Focus, Doctrine Features, Triggered Action, Field Arsenal, Mark, Strike Now, Tactician Abilities | 3, 5      | —                  |
| 2nd   | Battlefield Awareness, Doctrine Features, Perk, Doctrine Ability                                                    | 3, 5      | 5                  |
| 3rd   | Out of Position, Focus Ability                                                                                      | 3, 5, 7   | 5                  |

## 1ST-LEVEL FEATURES

As a tactician, you gain the following features:

### TACTICAL DOCTRINE

Warfare is as old as civilization—and perhaps even older. As battle became ever more developed and complex, military
leaders invented doctrine, outlining how combatants should be structured, used, and deployed. Doctrine can be learned at
war colleges passing on ancient martial traditions, or directly through blood and sweat on the battlefield.

You have developed a mastery of tactics of historical significance, letting you choose one of the following doctrines:

- **Vanguard (Shock and Awe):** You have learned the tactics and stratagems of the heroes of ancient history, letting
  you lead from the front lines of battle and seek victory through sheer force of will and personality. You gain a skill
  from the interpersonal skill group.
- **Mastermind (Grand Strategy):** You have an encyclopedic knowledge of warfare, viewing the battlefield as a game
  board, and seeking victory by thinking multiple steps ahead of your opponents. You gain a skill from the lore skill
  group.
- **Insurgent (Asymmetric Warfare):** Doing your duty, playing fair, and dying honorably in battle is your opponent’s
  job. By contrast, you’ll do whatever it takes to keep your allies alive. You gain a skill from the intrigue skill
  group.

Your choice of doctrine determines many of the features you’ll gain from this class.

### FOCUS

The ring of steel panics others but brings order to your mind, granting you a Heroic Resource called focus.

#### FOCUS IN COMBAT

When a combat encounter begins, you gain focus equal to your Victories. At the start of your turn in combat, you gain 2
focus. The first time in a round an ally attacks a target you have marked, you gain 1 focus. When combat ends, your
focus drops to 0.

#### FOCUS OUTSIDE OF COMBAT

Though you can’t gain focus outside of combat, you can use your heroic abilities and effects that cost focus without
spending it. Whenever you use an ability or effect that costs focus outside of combat, you can’t use that same ability
or effect again outside of combat again until you gain at least 1 Victory or finish a Respite.

If you use an ability that lets you spend unlimited discipline on its effect out of combat, you can use it as if you had
spent an amount of focus on it equal to your Victories.

### 1ST-LEVEL TACTICAL DOCTRINE FEATURES

| Doctrine   | Feature             |
|------------|---------------------|
| Vanguard   | Commanding Presence |
| Mastermind | Studied Commander   |
| Insurgent  | Covert Operations   |

#### COMMANDING PRESENCE

You command any room you walk into. While you are present, each hero with you is treated as having a Renown 2 higher
than usual for the purpose of negotiations and influencing tests. Additionally, each hero with you has a double edge on
tests made to stop combat and start a negotiation with the other side.

#### COVERT OPERATIONS

While in your presence or working according to your plans, each of your allies gains an edge on tests with any skill
from the intrigue skill group. Additionally, you can use the Lead skill to assist on any test made with a skill from the
intrigue skill group. At the Director’s discretion, you and your allies can use skills from the intrigue skill group to
attempt research or reconnaissance during a negotiation instead of outside of negotiation.

#### STUDIED COMMANDER

Your encyclopedic knowledge of the history of battle lets you apply that knowledge to current challenges. While you are
with them, any hero treats the Discover Lore project related to a war or battle as one category cheaper, with projects
seeking common lore becoming free, but still requiring a respite activity to complete. (See Research and Crafting in
future packets for more information.)

Additionally, if you have a reasonable amount of time before a combat encounter or negotiation, and you have at least
one clue or rumor regarding the encounter, you can make a Reason test as a Respite activity. The following test results
apply:

- **Combat Encounter:**
    - 11 or lower: The Director tells you the number of creatures in the encounter.
    - 12-16: The Director tells you the number and level of the creatures in the encounter.
    - 17+: As 12-16, and when the encounter begins, all enemies are surprised.

- **Negotiation:**
    - 11 or lower: The Director tells you three different motivations, one of which is one of the NPC’s motivations, and
      the other two are not.
    - 12-16: The Director tells you one of the NPC’s motivations.
    - 17+: As 12-16, and you and your allies gain an edge on tests made to influence NPCs during the negotiation.

You can only make this test once for each encounter and negotiation.

### DOCTRINE TRIGGERED ACTION

Your doctrine grants you a triggered action, as shown on the Tactician Triggered Actions table.

| Doctrine   | Triggered Action |
|------------|------------------|
| Vanguard   | Parry            |
| Mastermind | Overwatch        |
| Insurgent  | Advanced Tactics |

#### ADVANCED TACTICS

Your leadership thwarts an enemy or aids an ally.

- **Keywords:** Ranged 
- **Type:** Triggered  
- **Distance:** Ranged 10  
- **Target:** Any creature  
- **Trigger:** The target makes an attack against another creature.  

**Effect:** Add or subtract (SURGE) to the attack.  

**Spend 3 Focus:** Increase or decrease the potency of one effect from the attack.

#### PARRY

Your quick reflexes cost an enemy the precision they seek.

- **Keywords:** Melee, Weapon  
- **Type:** Triggered  
- **Distance:** Self or Melee 1  
- **Target:** Self or 1 ally  
- **Trigger:** A creature makes a Weapon attack against the target.  

**Effect:** The attack’s damage is reduced (SHIELD)(SHIELD).  

**Spend 3 Focus:** Decrease the potency of all effects on the attack by 1.

#### OVERWATCH

Under your direction, an ally waits for just the right moment to strike.

- **Keywords:** Ranged  
- **Type:** Triggered  
- **Distance:** Ranged 10  
- **Target:** 1 enemy  
- **Trigger:** The target moves.  

**Effect:** At any point during the target’s movement, one ally can make a free strike against the target.  

**Spend 1 Focus:** The target is also R [average] slowed.

### FIELD ARSENAL

You have drilled with a broad array of weapons and have developed techniques to optimize their use. Whenever you select
or change your kit, you can select an additional martial kit and gain the benefits of both kits. (See Kits.)

If both kits grant you the same benefit, you take one or the other and can’t change your choice until you finish a
Respite. (This usually means taking the higher of two bonuses.) You also gain access to the signature abilities of both
kits.

For example, if you take the Shining Armor and Sniper kits, you gain the following benefits overall:

- **Stamina Bonus:** +12
- **Stability Bonus:** +1
- **Melee Weapon Damage Bonus:** +2/+2/+2
- **Speed Bonus:** +1
- **Ranged Weapon Damage Bonus:** +0/+0/+3
- **Distance Bonus:** +10
- **Disengage:** +1
- You also gain the use of the Protective Attack and Patient Shot signature abilities.

Kit signature abilities already have their bonuses applied. For example, you might take the Martial Artist kit, which
gives a melee weapon damage bonus of +2/+2/+2, and the Mountain kit, which gives a melee weapon damage bonus of
+0/+0/+3. If you choose to use the Mountain kit’s damage bonus, then the Battle Grace signature ability from the Martial
Artist kit would reduce its damage by -2/-2/-2, as it loses the bonus from the Martial Artist kit. It then gains the
+0/+0/+3 of the Mountain kit, to deal damage of 2/5/10 for its tier 1, tier 2, and tier 3 results.

### MARK

You know how to focus the attention of your allies as you push them toward victory. You have the following ability:

#### MARK

You draw your allies’ attention to a specific foe—with devastating effect. 

- **Keywords:** Ranged  
- **Type:** Maneuver  
- **Distance:** Ranged 10  
- **Target:** 1 creature  

**Effect:** The target is marked by you until the start of your next turn. When attacking a marked target, you and each
of your allies gain a damage surge (SURGE).  

**Spend 1 Focus or More Focus:** You focus on understanding the tactics of your foe, countering their strengths and
exploiting their weaknesses to enhance your squad.

Each focus is banked on the marked creature, increasing the effectiveness of your mark, as indicated on your doctrine’s
focused mark table below. A marked creature with focus on it stays marked until the end of the encounter. When the
marked creature is reduced to 0 Stamina or otherwise removes the mark, you regain the focus.

You can use this maneuver on an already marked creature to bank more focus.

#### INSURGENT FOCUSED MARK

| Focus         | Benefit                                                                                                                                      |
|---------------|----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| 2             | You and your allies have an edge on attacks against the target. Multiple marks on the same target do not provide more than one edge.         |
| 4             | Attacks against the marked target also inflict R[weak] weakened (save ends).                                                                 |
| 6             | Attacks against the target do (SURGE)(SURGE) instead of (SURGE).                                                                             |
| 8 (Level 4)   | Attacks against the marked target also inflict R[average] weakened (save ends).                                                              |
| 10 (Level 7)  | Attacks against the target do (SURGE)(SURGE)(SURGE) instead of (SURGE).                                                                      |
| 12 (Level 10) | - Attacks against the marked target also inflict R[strong] weakened (save ends).<br> - Attacks against the marked target have a double edge. |

#### MASTERMIND FOCUSED MARK

| Focus         | Benefit                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             |
|---------------|-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| 2             | You and your allies have an edge on attacks against the target. Multiple marks on the same target do not provide more than 1 edge.                                                                                                                  |
| 4             | Attacks against the marked target also inflict R[weak] slowed (save ends).                                                                                                                                                                          |
| 6             | Attacks against the marked target also slide them a number of squares equal to your Reason score.                                                                                                                                                   |
| 8 (Level 4)   | Attacks against the marked target also inflict R[average] slowed (save ends).                                                                                                                                                                       |
| 10 (Level 7)  | The potency of all attacks against the marked target are increased by 2.                                                                                                                                                                            |
| 12 (Level 10) | - Attacks against the marked target also inflict R[strong] slowed (save ends).<br> - The potency of all attacks against the marked target are now increased by 3, and the potency of all attacks performed by the marked target are decreased by 3. |

#### VANGUARD FOCUSED MARK

| Focus         | Benefit                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    |
|---------------|------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| 2             | - You and your allies have an edge on attacks against the target. Multiple marks on the same target do not provide more than 1 edge. <br> - The target is taunted by you while it is marked.                                                                                                                                                               |
| 4             | If the marked target moves, shifts, or makes an attack that doesn’t include you, while within your melee range, you can make a free strike against them. R [weak], the target’s speed is reduced to 0 for the rest of their turn.                                                                                                                          |
| 6             | Allies have (SHIELD) against attacks from the marked target.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    |
| 8 (Level 4)   | If the marked target moves, shifts, or makes an attack that doesn’t include you, while within your melee range, you can make a free strike against them. R [average], the target’s speed is reduced to 0 for the rest of their turn.                                                                                                                       |
| 10 (Level 7)  | Allies have (SHIELD)(SHIELD) against attacks from the marked target.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 |
| 12 (Level 10) | - If the marked target moves, shifts, or makes an attack that doesn’t include you, while within your melee range, you can make a free strike against them. R [strong], the target’s speed is reduced to 0 for the rest of their turn. <br> - Attacks by the marked target that do not include you are automatically Tier 1 while you are adjacent to them. |

### STRIKE NOW

Your ability to command your allies in combat grants you the following ability:

#### “STRIKE NOW!”

Your foe left an opening. You point this out to an ally!

- **Keywords:** Ranged  
- **Type:** Action  
- **Distance:** Ranged 10  
- **Target:** 1 ally  

**Effect:** The target makes a signature attack as a free triggered action.  

**Spend 5 Focus:** You target two allies instead of one.

### 1ST-LEVEL DOCTRINE FEATURES

Your chosen doctrine grants you two features, as shown on the 1st-Level Tactical Doctrine Features table.

### TACTICIAN ABILITIES

You are a formidable combatant in your own right, but your greatest strength in battle is the ability to make your
allies even more formidable. You know a range of abilities that shape the scope of your control of the battlefield.

#### KIT SIGNATURE ABILITY

Your additional kit from your Field Arsenal feature grants you a second signature ability. Signature abilities can be
used at will.

#### HEROIC ABILITIES

Your heroic abilities cover a range of combat tactics, all of which require focus to use them.

##### 3-FOCUS ABILITIES

Choose one heroic ability from the following options, each of which costs 3 focus to use.

###### BATTLE CRY (3 FOCUS)

You shout a phrase that galvanizes your team.

- **Keywords:** Ranged  
- **Type:** Maneuver  
- **Distance:** Ranged 10  
- **Target:** Up to three allies

**Power Roll + Reason:**

- 11 or lower: The target’s next attack has (SURGE)
- 12–16: The target’s next attack has (SURGE)
- 17+: The target’s next attack has (SURGE)(SURGE)

###### CONCUSSIVE STRIKE (3 FOCUS)

Your precise strike leaves your foe struggling to respond.

- **Keywords:** Attack, Melee, Ranged, Weapon  
- **Type:** Action  
- **Distance:** Melee 1 or Ranged 5  
- **Target:** 1 creature or object

**Power Roll + Might:**

- 11 or lower: 3 damage; M [weak] dazed (save ends)
- 12–16: 5 damage; M [average] dazed (save ends)
- 17+: 8 damage; M [strong] dazed (save ends)

###### INSPIRING STRIKE (3 FOCUS)

Your attack gives an ally hope.

- **Keywords:** Attack, Melee, Ranged, Weapon  
- **Type:** Action  
- **Distance:** Melee 1 or Ranged 5  
- **Target:** 1 creature or object

**Power Roll + Might:**

- 11 or lower: 3 damage; you or an ally within 10 can spend a Recovery
- 12–16: 5 damage; you or an ally within 10 can spend a Recovery
- 17+: 8 damage; you or an ally within 10 can spend a Recovery, and each of you gains an edge on the next attack they
  make this encounter

###### SQUAD! FORWARD! (3 FOCUS)

On your command, you and your allies force back the enemy line.

- **Keywords:** Ranged, Weapon  
- **Type:** Maneuver  
- **Distance:** Ranged 10  
- **Target:** Self and 2 allies  

**Effect:** Each target can move their speed.

##### 5-FOCUS ABILITIES

Choose one heroic ability from the following options, each of which costs 5 focus to use.

###### HAMMER AND ANVIL (5 FOCUS)

"Let's not argue about who's the hammer and who's the anvil."

- **Keywords:** Attack, Melee, Ranged, Weapon  
- **Type:** Action  
- **Distance:** Melee 1 or Ranged 5  
- **Target:** 1 creature or object

**Power Roll + Might:**

- 11 or lower: 5 damage; an ally within 10 can make a signature attack against the target as a free triggered action
- 12–16: 9 damage; an ally within 10 can make a signature attack with an edge against the target as a free triggered
  action
- 17+: 12 damage; two allies within 10 can each make a signature attack with an edge against the target as a free
  triggered action


**Effect:** If an attack is left to be resolved and the target was reduced to 0 Stamina, the attacker can pick a
different target.

###### THE MIND GAME (5 FOCUS)

Your attack demoralizes your foe. Your allies begin to think you can win.

- **Keywords:** Attack, Melee, Ranged, Weapon  
- **Type:** Action  
- **Distance:** Melee 1 or Ranged 5  
- **Target:** 1 creature or object  

**Effect:** Mark the target.

**Power Roll + Might:**

- 11 or lower: 4 damage; R [weak] weakened (save ends)
- 12–16: 6 damage; R [average] weakened (save ends)
- 17+: 10 damage; R [strong] weakened (save ends)


**Effect:** Each of your allies can spend a Recovery the first time they attack any target you’ve marked before the
start of your next turn.

###### NOW! (5 FOCUS)

Your allies wait for your command—then unleash death!

- **Keywords:** Ranged, Weapon  
- **Type:** Maneuver  
- **Distance:** Ranged 5  
- **Target:** 3 allies  

**Effect:** Each target can make a free strike.

###### THIS IS WHAT WE PLANNED FOR (5 FOCUS)

All those coordination drills you made them do finally pay off.

- **Keywords:** Ranged  
- **Type:** Maneuver  
- **Distance:** Ranged 10  
- **Target:** 2 allies  

**Effect:** Each target who hasn’t acted yet this round can take their turn in any order immediately after yours.

## 2ND-LEVEL FEATURES

As a 2nd-level tactician, you gain the following features.

### ADAPT A STRATEGY

At the beginning of your first turn, choose an offensive strategy or a defensive strategy. Your choice increases either
your (SURGE) limit to (SURGE)(SURGE)(SURGE)(SURGE) or your (SHIELD) limit to (SHIELD)(SHIELD)(SHIELD)(SHIELD).

### 2ND-LEVEL DOCTRINE FEATURES

Your specialization grants you features as shown on the 2nd-Level Tactical Doctrines Features table.

| Specialization | Feature              |
|----------------|----------------------|
| Insurgent      | Infiltration Tactics |
| Mastermind     | Goaded               |
| Vanguard       | Melee Superiority    |

#### GOADED

You choose what order enemies marked by you take their initiative order. Other creatures grouped with a marked target
must take their turn at the same time you choose.

#### INFILTRATION TACTICS

You and your allies do (SURGE) when attacking from concealment or while hidden.

#### MELEE SUPERIORITY

When you make an opportunity attack, the attack gains the following effect: R [average], the target’s speed is reduced
to 0 for the rest of their turn.

### PERK

You gain an exploration, interpersonal, or intrigue perk of your choice. See Perks for more information.

### 2ND-LEVEL DOCTRINE ABILITY

Your specialization grants you a choice of one of two abilities.

#### 2ND-LEVEL INSURGENT ABILITIES

Choose one of the following abilities.

##### FOG OF WAR (5 FOCUS)

Your unorthodox strategy causes enemies to lash out in fear, heedless of who they may be attacking.

- **Keywords:** Ranged  
- **Type:** Maneuver  
- **Distance:** Ranged 10  
- **Target:** Up to 3 enemies  

**Effect:** Mark each of the targets until the beginning of your next turn. You can choose to bank extra focus on these
targets as part of this ability. Until the beginning of your next turn, whenever you or an ally makes an attack against
any marked target, you can force the marked target to make a free strike against a creature within 5.

##### TRY ME INSTEAD (5 FOCUS)

"Try picking on someone MY size."

- **Keywords:** Attack, Melee, Weapon  
- **Type:** Action  
- **Distance:** Melee 1  
- **Target:** 1 creature  

**Effect:** You shift your speed directly toward an ally adjacent to the target and then swap locations with the ally,
provided you can fit into each other’s spaces. The ally can spend a Recovery and you roll power against the target.

**Power Roll + Reason:**

- 11 or lower: 2 damage; R [weak] frightened of you (save ends)
- 12–16: 3 damage; R [average] frightened of you (save ends)
- 17+: 4 damage; R [strong] frightened of you (save ends)

#### 2ND-LEVEL MASTERMIND ABILITIES

Choose one of the following abilities.

##### I’VE GOT YOUR BACK (5 FOCUS)

Your enemy will think twice about attacking your friend.

- **Keywords:** Ranged  
- **Type:** Action  
- **Distance:** Ranged 5  
- **Target:** 1 creature

**Power Roll + Reason:**

- 11 or lower: 2 damage; R [weak] frightened of an adjacent ally (save ends)
- 12–16: 3 damage; R [average] frightened of an adjacent ally (save ends)
- 17+: 5 damage; R [strong] frightened of an adjacent ally (save ends)


**Effect:** An ally adjacent to the target can spend a Recovery.

##### THEIR TACTICS ARE SO PRIMITIVE (5 FOCUS)

All that time you spent studying ancient battles paid off!

- **Keywords:** Ranged  
- **Type:** Maneuver  
- **Distance:** Ranged 5  
- **Target:** 3 enemies  

**Effect:** You mark each of the targets until the beginning of your next turn. For the rest of the round, whenever you
or an ally makes an attack, the attack can target an additional creature who is marked by you.

#### 2ND-LEVEL VANGUARD ABILITIES

Choose one of the following abilities.

##### NO DYING ON MY WATCH (5 FOCUS)

You prioritize saving an ally over your own safety.

- **Keywords:** Attack, Melee, Weapon  
- **Type:** Triggered  
- **Distance:** Ranged 5  
- **Target:** 1 enemy  
- **Trigger:** The target attacks an ally.  

**Effect:** You move toward the target, ending your move in the nearest square that puts the target adjacent to you if
you can. The ally can spend a Recovery and an additional Recovery for each enemy you move past while moving to the
target. Then make the following power roll against the target.

**Power Roll + Might:**

- 11 or lower: R [weak] frightened of the triggering ally (save ends)
- 12–16: R [average] frightened of the triggering ally (save ends)
- 17+: R [strong] frightened of the triggering ally (save ends)

##### SQUAD! ON ME! (5 FOCUS)

Together we are invincible!

- **Keywords:** Area  
- **Type:** Maneuver  
- **Distance:** Self and 1 burst  
- **Target:** Self and all allies  

**Effect:** Until the start of your next turn, targets have (SHIELD)(SHIELD) and a bonus to their Stability equal to your Might
score.

## 3RD-LEVEL FEATURES

As a 3rd-level tactician, you gain the following features.

### OUT OF POSITION

You are prepared for all eventualities. At the beginning of the encounter, before any creatures take their turn, you can
use Mark as a free triggered action. You can immediately slide the marked creature 3 squares. This movement ignores
Stability but cannot move into squares that would cause damage or death.

This feature works even if you are surprised.

### 7-FOCUS ABILITIES

Choose one heroic ability from the following options.

#### DOUBLE ENVELOPMENT (7 FOCUS)

Historians will write about this day.

- **Keywords:** —  
- **Type:** Maneuver  
- **Distance:** Self  
- **Target:** Self  

**Effect:** Until the end of the encounter or you are dying, whenever you or an ally attacks a target marked by you,
they do (SURGE)(SURGE).

#### FRONTAL ASSAULT (7 FOCUS)

The purpose of a charge is to break their morale, and force a retreat.

- **Keywords:** —  
- **Type:** Maneuver  
- **Distance:** Self  
- **Target:** Self  

**Effect:** Until the end of the encounter, or you are dying, whenever you or an ally attacks a target marked by you,
they can push the target 2, then shift 2. Allies can use signature attacks or heroic attacks as part of a charge against
marked targets.

#### ROUT (7 FOCUS)

The tide begins to turn.

- **Keywords:** —  
- **Type:** Maneuver  
- **Distance:** Self  
- **Target:** Self  

**Effect:** Until the end of the encounter, or you are dying, whenever you or an ally attacks a target marked by you,
they are R [average] frightened of the attacker (save ends).

#### STAY STRONG, AND FOCUS! (7 FOCUS)

"We can do this! Keep faith and hold fast!"

- **Keywords:** —  
- **Type:** Maneuver  
- **Distance:** Self  
- **Target:** Self  

**Effect:** Until the end of the encounter or you are dying, whenever you or an ally attacks a target marked by you,
they can spend a Recovery.

# TALENT

The talent is a master of psionics, a source of incredible power created through sheer force of will. A talent can move
and change matter, time, gravity, the laws of physics, or another creature’s mind. In rare occurrences, people are born
with the potential to harness psionic power, but only those who experience an awakening, an event that activates a
talent’s abilities, can actually tap into the mind’s strength.

The talent is limited only by the strength of their mind. Powerful psionic heroes can have multiple active powers at
once and change reality at will. But with this limitless potential comes a gamble. Every manifestation has a chance of
harming the talent, and those who use too many too quickly die from the exertion.

## BASICS

**Starting Characteristics:** You start with a Reason of 2 and a Presence of 2, and can choose one of the following
arrays for your other characteristics scores:

- 2, −1, −1
- 1, 1, −1
- 1, 0, 0

**Weak Potency:** Reason score − 1  
**Average Potency:** Reason score  
**Strong Potency:** Reason score + 1  
**Starting Stamina at 1st Level:** 18  
**Stamina Gained at 2nd and greater levels:** 9  
**Recoveries:** 8

**Skills:** You have Psionics and Read Person. Choose any two skills from the interpersonal or lore skill groups.

### TALENT ADVANCEMENT

| Level | Features                                                                                                                    | Abilities               | Tradition Abilities |
|-------|-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|-------------------------|---------------------|
| 1st   | Tradition, Clarity and Strain, Mind Spike, Telepathic Speech, Tradition Features, Mind Focus, Talent Ward, Talent Abilities | Two signatures, 3, 5    | -                   |
| 2nd   | Perk, Tradition Feature, Tradition Ability                                                                                  | Two signatures, 3, 5    | -                   |
| 3rd   | Scan, 7-Clarity Ability                                                                                                     | Two signatures, 3, 5, 7 | -                   |

## 1ST-LEVEL FEATURES

As a talent, you gain the following features:

### TRADITION

Psionic abilities manifest into one of multiple categories. Some examples of categories include:

- **Animapathy:** Abilities that allow you to manipulate, meld, and exchange the souls of living things.
- **Chronopathy:** Abilities that allow you to view future and past events, and to manipulate time to aid allies and
  hinder foes.
- **Cryokinesis:** Abilities that allow you to manifest and manipulate absolute cold to freeze the water and air within
  and around the environment.
- **Metamorphosis:** Abilities that allow you to strengthen and manipulate your body and the bodies of others, allowing
  for the performance of preternatural exploits.
- **Pyrokinesis:** Abilities that allow you to create and manipulate fire by interacting with the potential energy found
  in all things.
- **Resopathy:** Abilities that allow you to manipulate matter and space to create, alter, or displace your environment
  and the creatures and objects in it.
- **Telekinesis:** Abilities that allow you to physically manipulate creatures and objects.
- **Telepathy:** Abilities that allow you to communicate with, read, and influence the minds of other creatures.

As talents gain mastery over their minds, they find a tradition for one psionic category that’s as easy to manifest as
it is to breathe. Choose one of the following categories to be your tradition: chronopathy, telekinesis, or telepathy.
Other talent affinities will be featured in future products. Your choice determines your Tradition Triggered Action and
Tradition Features in addition to several features you get at later levels.

### CLARITY AND STRAIN

Your mind is your greatest asset, and the clarity of your thoughts is what empowers your psionic abilities. You have a
heroic resource called clarity.

#### CLARITY IN COMBAT

When a combat encounter (or other stressful situation tracked in rounds as determined by the Director) begins, you gain
clarity equal to your Victories. At the start of each of your turns in combat, you gain 1d3 clarity.

You can choose to spend clarity you do not have, going into negative numbers. Your negative clarity limit is equal to
1 + your Reason. At the end of your turn, you take 1d6 damage for each clarity you have below 0.

While you have clarity below 0, you are strained. Some psionic abilities have additional effects if you are already
strained or become strained when you use them. Strained effects can still impact you even after you are no longer
strained.

Your clarity disappears at the end of the encounter.

#### CLARITY OUTSIDE OF COMBAT

Though you can’t gain clarity outside of combat, you can use your heroic abilities and effects that cost clarity without
spending it. If you use two or more heroic abilities or effects that cost clarity within 1 minute of each other, you
take 1d6 damage and incur any strain effects from using them.

Whenever you use an ability or effect that costs clarity outside of combat, you can’t use that same ability or effect
again outside of combat until you gain at least 1 Victory or finish a Respite.

If you use an ability that lets you spend unlimited clarity on its effect out of combat, you can use it as if you had
spent an amount of clarity on it equal to your Victories.

### MIND SPIKE

You can fire a bolt of psychic energy into an enemy’s mind. You gain access to the Mind Spike ability, which can be used
as a ranged free strike:

#### MIND SPIKE

*A telepathic bolt that instantly zaps a creature’s brain.*  

- **Keywords:** Attack, Psionic, Ranged, Telepathy  
- **Type:** Action  
- **Distance:** Ranged 10  
- **Target:** 1 creature

**Power Roll + Reason:**

- 11 or lower: 2 psychic damage
- 12-16: 4 psychic damage
- 17+: 6 psychic damage

**Strained:** The attack deals an extra 2 psychic damage to the target and yourself. This damage ignores your
immunities.

### TELEPATHIC SPEECH

You know the Mindspeech language. You can also telepathically communicate with creatures within the distance of your
Mind Spike ability if they share a language with you and you know of each other. The receiver of your telepathic
communications can choose to respond telepathically.

### TRADITION FEATURES

Your tradition grants you features as shown on the 1st-level Talent Tradition Features table.

#### 1ST-LEVEL TALENT TRADITION FEATURES

| Tradition   | Features                         |
|-------------|----------------------------------|
| Chronopathy | Accelerate, Again                |
| Telekinesis | Minor Telekinesis, Repel         |
| Telepathy   | Feedback Loop, Remote Assistance |

#### ACCELERATE

You gain access to the following maneuver:

##### ACCELERATE

*To your ally, it seems as though the world has slowed down.*

- **Keywords:** Psionic  
- **Type:** Maneuver  
- **Distance:** Self or Ranged 10  
- **Target:** Self or 1 creature


**Effect:** The target can immediately shift a number of squares up to your Reason.  

**Spend 3 Clarity:** The target can also take a maneuver.

#### AGAIN

You gain access to the following triggered action:

##### AGAIN

*You step back a split second to see if things play out a little differently.*

- **Keywords:** Psionic, Ranged  
- **Type:** Triggered  
- **Distance:** Self or Ranged 10  
- **Target:** Self or 1 creature  
- **Trigger:** The target makes an attack. You can use this ability after seeing the result of the roll. You gain 1
clarity.


**Effect:** You force the target to reroll the power roll and use the new result, even if the original result was a
critical hit.

#### FEEDBACK LOOP

You gain access to the following triggered action:

##### FEEDBACK LOOP

*By creating a brief psychic link with their target, you give a foe a taste of their own medicine.*

- **Keywords:** Psionic, Ranged  
- **Type:** Triggered  
- **Distance:** Ranged 10  
- **Target:** 1 creature  
- **Trigger:** The target deals damage to an ally.


**Effect:** The target takes half the damage they dealt in psychic damage. You gain 1 clarity.

#### MINOR TELEKINESIS

You gain access to the following maneuver:

##### MINOR TELEKINESIS

*Wisps of psychic energy ripple visibly from your brain as you force the target to move using only your mind.*

- **Keywords:** Psionic  
- **Type:** Maneuver  
- **Distance:** Self or Ranged 10  
- **Target:** Self or a size 1 creature or object


**Effect:** You slide the target a number of squares equal to your Reason score.  

**Spend 2+ Clarity:** The size of the creature or object you can target increases by 1 for every 2 clarity you spend.  

**Spend 3 Clarity:** You can slide the target vertically.

#### REMOTE ASSISTANCE

You gain access to the following maneuver:

##### REMOTE ASSISTANCE

*An ally gains the benefit of your intellect.*

- **Keywords:** Psionic  
- **Type:** Maneuver  
- **Distance:** Ranged 10  
- **Target:** 1 creature or object


**Effect:** You use the Aid Attack maneuver on the target.  

**Spend 3 Clarity:** You target 1 additional creature or object.

#### REPEL

You gain access to the following triggered action:

##### REPEL

*They aren’t going anywhere, but you might!*

- **Keywords:** Psionic, Ranged  
- **Type:** Triggered  
- **Distance:** Self or Ranged 10  
- **Target:** Self or 1 ally  
- **Trigger:** The target takes damage or is force moved.


**Effect:** The target gains (SHIELD) against the damage, or the force movement distance is reduced by an amount equal to
your Reason score. If they were both damaged and force moved, you choose which is affected. If any forced movement was
reduced to 0, the source of the forced movement is pushed a number of squares equal to your Reason, originating from the
target. You gain 1 clarity.

### MIND FOCUS

Through psionic meditation, you have created pathways in your mind that enhance your statistics. You can choose one of
the following focuses. You can change your focus along with your ward (see Talent Ward) by undergoing psionic meditation
as a respite activity.

#### BATTLE FOCUS

You can wear medium armor and wield light weapons effectively, even though you don’t have a kit.
  While you wear medium armor, you gain a +6 bonus to Stamina. While you wield a light weapon, you deal 1 extra damage
  with abilities that have the Weapon keyword, including free strikes. You can use medium armor and light weapon
  treasures. If you have a kit, you can’t take this focus.

#### DISTANCE FOCUS

The ranged distance of your abilities with the Ranged and Psionic keywords increases by 5.

#### DENSITY FOCUS

Your Stamina increases by 3 and stability increases by 1.

#### FORCE FOCUS

When you deal damage with a Psionic ability, the damage dealt increases by 1.

#### SPEED FOCUS

Your speed increases by 1, and when you take the Disengage move action, you can shift 1 extra square.

### TALENT WARD

Through psionic meditation, you create a ward that protects you. You can choose one of the following wards. You can
change your ward along with your mind focus (see Mind Focus) by undergoing psionic meditation as a respite activity.

#### ENTROPY WARD

Your ward slows time for your enemies. When a creature deals damage to you, their speed is reduced
  by an amount equal to your Reason score, and they can’t use triggered actions until the end of their next turn.

#### REPULSIVE WARD

You make yourself an invisible ward of telekinetic energy. When an adjacent creature deals damage
  to you, you can push them a number of squares equal to your Reason score as a free triggered action.

#### STEEL WARD

Your ward reacts to danger, protecting your body from future harm. When you take damage, the damage
  resolves and then you gain (SHIELD) until the end of your next turn.

#### VANISHING WARD

Your ward allows you to slip away from danger. When you take damage, you become invisible until
  the end of your next turn.

### SELECT ABILITIES

You manifest a variety of psionic powers to impact the environment, bolster your allies, and empower yourself. You can
choose to expand your utility across a variety of different situations, or hone in on your tradition and establish your
niche.

#### SIGNATURE ABILITIES

Select two signature abilities. Signature abilities can be used at will.

##### ENTROPIC BOLT

*You advance an enemy's age for a moment.*

- **Keywords:** Attack, Chronopathy, Psionic, Ranged  
- **Type:** Action  
- **Distance:** Ranged 10  
- **Target:** 1 creature or object

**Power Roll + Presence:**

- 11 or lower: 1 corruption damage; P [weak] slowed (save ends)
- 12-16: 2 corruption damage; P [average] slowed (save ends)
- 17+: 3 corruption damage; P [strong] slowed (save ends)


**Effect:** The target takes 1 extra corruption damage for each time they are targeted by this ability within a single
encounter.  
**Strained:** You gain 1 clarity on a tier-2 or higher result.

##### INCINERATE

*The air erupts into a column of smokeless flame.* 

- **Keywords:** Area, Fire, Ranged, Psionic, Pyrokinesis  
- **Type:** Action  
- **Distance:** 3 Cube within 10  
- **Target:** All enemies

**Power Roll + Reason:**

- 11 or lower: 2 fire damage
- 12-16: 3 fire damage
- 17+: 4 fire damage


**Effect:** The column of fire lingers until the start of your next turn. A creature or object that enters or starts
their turn in the affected area takes 2 fire damage.  
**Strained:** The cube area increases by 2, but the fire immediately disappears at the end of your turn.

##### KINETIC GRIP

*You lift and hurl your foe away from you.* 

- **Keywords:** Melee, Psionic, Telekinesis  
- **Type:** Action  
- **Distance:** Melee 3  
- **Target:** 1 size 1 creature or object

**Power Roll + Reason:**

- 11 or lower: push 2
- 12-16: push 4
- 17+: push 6; prone


**Effect:** You can choose to slide the target 2 before making the power roll.  
**Strained:** You can’t use this ability’s additional effect, but the push can be vertical.

##### KINETIC PULSE

*The force of your mind hurls enemies backwards.* 

- **Keywords:** Area, Psionic, Telepathy  
- **Type:** Action  
- **Distance:** 1 Burst  
- **Target:** All enemies

**Power Roll + Reason:**

- 11 or lower: 2 psychic damage
- 12-16: 3 psychic damage; push 1
- 17+: 5 psychic damage; push 2

**Strained:** The burst area increases by 2 and you become bleeding until the start of your next turn.

##### OPTIC BLAST

*Your eyes emit rays of powerful enervating force.* 

- **Keywords:** Attack, Metamorphosis, Psionic, Ranged  
- **Type:** Action  
- **Distance:** Ranged 10  
- **Target:** 1 creature or object

**Power Roll + Reason:**

- 11 or lower: 2 damage; M [weak] prone
- 12-16: 3 damage; M [average] prone
- 17+: 4 damage; M [strong] prone


**Effect:** When targeting an object with a solid reflective surface, such as a mirror, a shield, or metal armor, you
can choose an additional target within 3 of the reflective surface.  
**Strained:** You have a (SURGE) on the attack. Enemies have a (SURGE) on attacks made against you until the start of your next
turn.

##### SPIRIT SWORD

*Your mind, as sharp as a blade.* 

- **Keywords:** Animapathy, Attack, Melee, Psionic  
- **Type:** Action  
- **Distance:** Melee 2  
- **Target:** 1 creature or object

**Power Roll + Presence:**

- 11 or lower: 2 damage
- 12-16: 5 damage
- 17+: 7 damage


**Effect:** The next attack against the target has a (SURGE).  
**Strained:** The attack deals an extra 3 damage to the target and yourself. This damage ignores your immunities.

#### HEROIC ABILITIES

You know abilities that cost clarity to use called heroic abilities.

##### 3-CLARITY ABILITIES

Choose one heroic ability from the following options:

###### AWE (3 CLARITY)

*You project psionic energy out to a creature and take on a new visage in their mind.*

- **Keywords:** Attack, Psionic, Ranged, Telepathy  
- **Type:** Action  
- **Distance:** Ranged 10  
- **Target:** 1 ally or enemy


**Effect:** An ally targeted by this ability gains Temporary Stamina equal to twice your Presence and ends one (EoT)
or (save ends) effect affecting them. If you target an enemy, you make the following attack.

**Power Roll + Presence:**

- 11 or lower: 3 psychic damage; I [weak] frightened of you (save ends)
- 12-16: 6 psychic damage; I [average] frightened of you (save ends)
- 17+: 9 psychic damage; I [strong] frightened of you (save ends)

###### NOTHING EXCEEDS MY GRASP (3 CLARITY)

*Be careful not to choke on your aspirations.*

- **Keywords:** Attack, Psionic, Ranged, Telekinesis  
- **Type:** Action  
- **Distance:** Ranged 10  
- **Target:** 1 creature

**Power Roll + Reason:**

- 11 or lower: 3 damage; M [weak] slowed (save ends)
- 12-16: 5 damage; M [average] slowed (save ends)
- 17+: 8 damage; M [strong] restrained (save ends)


**Effect:** You can pull the target up to 2 squares. You can force move a target restrained by this ability, ignoring
stability.

###### PRECOGNITION (3 CLARITY)

*You give a target a glimpse into the future so that they’re ready for what comes next.*

- **Keywords:** Chronopathy, Melee, Psionic  
- **Type:** Action  
- **Distance:** Self or Melee 2  
- **Target:** Self or 1 ally


**Effect:** The target has (SHIELD) until the start of your next turn. Whenever the target takes damage while they have this
effect, they can take a free strike against the source of the damage.

###### SMOLDER (3 CLARITY)

*Smoke falls from your enemy like tears as their skin begins to blacken and flake.* 

- **Keywords:** Attack, Psionic, Pyrokinesis, Ranged  
- **Type:** Action  
- **Distance:** Ranged 10  
- **Target:** 1 creature

**Power Roll + Reason:**

- 11 or lower: 3 special damage; R [weak] target has special weakness 5 (save ends)
- 12-16: 6 special damage; R [average] target has special weakness 5 (save ends)
- 17+: 9 special damage; R [strong] target has special weakness equal to 5 + your Reason (save ends)


**Effect:** The target takes damage before receiving any special weakness effects. The weakness and damage type of this
ability must be chosen from one of the following damage types: acid, corruption, or fire.

##### 5-CLARITY ABILITIES

Choose one heroic ability from the following options:

###### FLASHBACK (5 CLARITY)

*The target is thrown back through time several seconds and gets to do it all again.* 

- **Keywords:** Chronopathy, Psionic, Ranged  
- **Type:** Maneuver  
- **Distance:** Self or Ranged 10  
- **Target:** Self or 1 ally


**Effect:** The target uses an ability they’ve previously used this round without spending any heroic resources.  
**Strained:** You take 1d6 damage and you are slowed (save ends).

###### INERTIA SOAK (5 CLARITY)

*Your psionic energy surrounds the target and pushes everything else away from them.* 

- **Keywords:** Psionic, Ranged, Telekinesis  
- **Type:** Maneuver  
- **Distance:** Self or Ranged 10  
- **Target:** Self or 1 ally


**Effect:** The target ignores difficult terrain and takes no damage from forced movement until the start of your next
turn. When the target moves into a square while they have this effect, they can push one adjacent creature 2 squares.  
**Strained:** You are weakened and your stability decreases by 5, which can become a negative value that adds to the
distance you are force moved (save ends).

###### IRON (5 CLARITY)

*The target’s skin turns to hard, dark metal, both impenetrable and dense.* 

- **Keywords:** Metamorphosis, Psionic, Ranged  
- **Type:** Maneuver  
- **Distance:** Self or Ranged 10  
- **Target:** Self or 1 ally


**Effect:** The target’s stability increases by 5, and they have (SHIELD) and a (SURGE) on weapon attacks until the start of your
next turn.  
**Strained:** You cannot use maneuvers (save ends).

###### PERFECT CLARITY (5 CLARITY)

*You clear the mind of nothing but the goal.* 

- **Keywords:** Psionic, Ranged, Telepathy  
- **Type:** Maneuver  
- **Distance:** Self or Ranged 10  
- **Target:** Self or 1 ally


**Effect:** The target’s speed increases by 3, and they have a double edge on their next power roll made before the
start of your next turn. If the target gets a tier-3 result on the roll, you gain 1 clarity.  
**Strained:** You take 1d6 damage and you can’t use triggered actions (save ends).

## 2ND-LEVEL FEATURES

As a 2nd-level talent, you gain the following features:

### PERK

You gain an interpersonal, lore, or supernatural perk of your choice. See Perks for more information.

### 2ND-LEVEL TRADITION FEATURE

Your talents extend naturally to your heroic feats outside the battlefield.

#### 2ND-LEVEL TRADITION FEATURE

| Tradition   | Feature                      |
|-------------|------------------------------|
| Chronopathy | Ease the Hours, Extra Shield |
| Telekinesis | Ease their Fall, Extra Surge |
| Telepathy   | Ease the Mind, Extra Shield  |

#### EASE THE HOURS

You can increase the number of rounds in a montage test by 1 if the test would end before the
  heroes hit the success limit.

#### EASE THE MIND

You have an edge on tests to stop combat and start negotiations. NPCs with hostile or suspicious
  starting attitudes in negotiations have an additional 1 patience.

#### EASE THEIR FALL

Whenever you land from falling, or a falling creature lands within 2 of you, you can reduce the
  falling damage by 2 + your Reason.

#### EXTRA SHIELD

Your (SHIELD) limit increases by 1, for a maximum of (SHIELD)(SHIELD)(SHIELD)(SHIELD).

#### EXTRA SURGE

Your (SURGE) limit increases by 1, for a maximum of (SURGE)(SURGE)(SURGE)(SURGE).

### 5-CLARITY TRADITION ABILITY

Your tradition grants your choice of one of two abilities.

#### CHRONOPATHY ABILITIES

Choose one of the following abilities:

##### APPLIED CHRONOMETRICS (5 CLARITY)

*Time slows down around you. Your heartbeat is the only gauge of the extra moments you’ve gained.* 

- **Keywords:** Chronopathy, Psionic, Ranged  
- **Type:** Maneuver  
- **Distance:** Self or Ranged 10  
- **Target:** Special

**Power Roll + Presence:**

- 11 or lower: Target 2 creatures, one of which can be you
- 12-16: Target 3 creatures, one of which can be you
- 17+: Target 4 creatures, one of which can be you


**Effect:** Each target’s speed increases by 5 and they gain the use of an additional maneuver during their turn until
the start of your next turn.  
**Strained:** Your speed is halved until the end of the encounter.

##### SLOW (5 CLARITY)

*Perhaps they wonder why everyone else is moving so quickly?* 

- **Keywords:** Chronopathy, Psionic, Ranged  
- **Type:** Maneuver  
- **Distance:** Ranged 10  
- **Target:** 3 creatures or objects

**Power Roll + Presence:**

- 11 or lower: Speed is halved; P [weak] slowed (save ends)
- 12-16: Slowed (save ends); P [average] speed is 0 (save ends)
- 17+: Slowed (save ends); P [strong] speed is 0 (save ends)


**Effect:** Each target can’t use triggered actions while they are slowed by this ability.  
**Strained:** The potency of this ability increases by 1. You take 1d6 damage. At the start of each round while a target
is affected by this ability, you take 1d6 damage. You can choose to immediately end the effects on all affected
targets (no action required).

#### TELEKINESIS ABILITIES

Choose one of the following abilities:

##### GRAVITIC BURST (5 CLARITY)

*Everyone get away from me!*

- **Keywords:** Area, Psionic, Telekinesis  
- **Type:** Action  
- **Distance:** 1 Burst  
- **Target:** All enemies

**Power Roll + Reason:**

- 11 or lower: 3 damage; vertical push 2
- 12-16: 6 damage; vertical push 4
- 17+: 9 damage; vertical push 6

**Strained:** The burst area increases by 1 and you are weakened (EoT).

##### LEVITY AND GRAVITY (5 CLARITY)

*You raise the target into the air and smother them against the ground.* 

- **Keywords:** Attack, Psionic, Ranged, Telekinesis  
- **Type:** Action  
- **Distance:** Ranged 10  
- **Target:** 1 creature or object

**Power Roll + Reason:**

- 11 or lower: 6 damage; M [weak] prone
- 12-16: 10 damage; M [average] prone
- 17+: 14 damage; M [strong] prone can’t stand (save ends)


**Effect:** A target made prone by this ability is lifted 2 squares into the air before falling immediately to the
ground.  
**Strained:** You take half the damage the target takes, including any damage from falling.

#### TELEPATHY ABILITIES

Choose one of the following abilities:

##### OVERWHELM (5 CLARITY)

*You overload their senses, turning all their subconscious thoughts into conscious ones.* 

- **Keywords:** Attack, Psionic, Ranged, Telepathy  
- **Type:** Action  
- **Distance:** Ranged 10  
- **Target:** 1 creature

**Power Roll + Reason:**

- 11 or lower: 6 psychic damage; I [weak] slowed (save ends)
- 12-16: 10 psychic damage; I [average] weakened (save ends)
- 17+: 14 psychic damage; I [strong] dazed (save ends)

**Strained:** You start crying. You can’t take triggered actions or take free strikes until the end of the target’s next
turn.

##### SYNAPTIC OVERRIDE (5 CLARITY)

*You gain control over an enemy's nervous system. How pleasant for them.* 

- **Keywords:** Psionic, Ranged, Telepathy  
- **Type:** Action  
- **Distance:** Ranged 10  
- **Target:** 1 enemy

**Power Roll + Reason:**

- 11 or lower: Target takes a free strike on an enemy of your choice
- 12-16: Target shifts up to their speed and uses their signature ability against targets of your choice
- 17+: Target moves up to their speed and uses their signature ability against targets of your choice


**Effect:** You control the target’s movement. You can’t move the target in a way that puts them in harm’s way, such as
off a cliff. However, you can move them in a way that provokes opportunity attacks.  
**Strained:** You take 1d6 damage and you are weakened (EoT).

## 3RD-LEVEL FEATURES

As a 3rd-level talent, you gain the following features.

### SCAN

You can Search for Hidden Creatures as a free maneuver once on each of your turns. Once you’ve established a line of
effect to a thinking creature, you always have a line of effect to that creature until they leave the range of your Mind
Spike distance.

### 7-CLARITY ABILITY

Choose one heroic ability from the following options:

#### FLING THROUGH TIME (7 CLARITY)

*You hurl the target through the annals of time, forcing them to witness every moment of their existence all at once.* 

- **Keywords:** Chronopathy, Psionic, Ranged  
- **Type:** Action  
- **Distance:** Ranged 10  
- **Target:** 1 creature or object

**Power Roll + Presence:**

- 11 or lower: 3 corruption damage; P [weak] weakened (save ends)
- 12-16: 5 corruption damage; removed from encounter (EoT); P [average] weakened (save ends)
- 17+: 8 corruption damage; removed from encounter (EoT); P [strong] weakened (save ends)


**Effect:** When a target removed from the encounter returns, they appear where they were removed or in the closest
available space of the Director’s choice.  
**Strained:** You take 2d6 damage and you grow visibly older (the equivalent of 10 human years). You gain 2 clarity on a
tier-3 result.

#### FORCE ORBS (7 CLARITY)

*Three spheres of solid psionic energy float around you.* 

- **Keywords:** Attack, Psionic, Ranged, Telekinesis  
- **Type:** Action  
- **Distance:** Self  
- **Target:** Self


**Effect:** You create three size 1T orb objects that orbit your body. You have a (SHIELD) for each orb you have active.
Whenever you take damage, you lose 1 orb.  
You can use a free maneuver to fire an orb at a creature or object within 5 as a ranged attack on each of your turns,
losing the orb after the attack.

**Power Roll + Reason:**

- 11 or lower: 2 damage
- 12-16: 3 damage
- 17+: 5 damage

**Strained:** You create five orbs. You are weakened while you have orbs active.

#### REFLECTOR FIELD (7 CLARITY)

*A field that reverses the momentum of incoming attacks.* 

- **Keywords:** Area, Psionic, Telepathy  
- **Type:** Action  
- **Distance:** 3 Aura  
- **Target:** Self


**Effect:** The aura lasts until the start of your next turn. Whenever an enemy targets an ally within the aura with a
ranged ability, the ability is negated on the ally and reflected back at the enemy, dealing half damage and negating any
additional effects.  
**Strained:** The aura increases by 1. Each ability your aura reflects causes you to take 2d6 damage and makes you
forget a memory.

#### SOUL BURN (7 CLARITY)

*You blast their soul out of their body, leaving it to helplessly float back to a weakened husk.* 

- **Keywords:** Animapathy, Attack, Psionic, Ranged  
- **Type:** Action  
- **Distance:** Ranged 10  
- **Target:** 1 creature

**Power Roll + Presence:**

- 11 or lower: 4 damage; P [weak] dazed (save ends)
- 12-16: 7 damage; P [average] dazed (save ends)
- 17+: 11 damage; P [strong] dazed (save ends)


**Effect:** After resolving the power roll, attacks and abilities used against the target have a (SURGE), and the target has a
bane on presence tests until the end of the encounter.  
**Strained:** The potency of this ability increases by 1. You take 2d6 damage and attacks and abilities used against you
have a (SURGE) until the end of the encounter.

# TROUBADOUR

The world's a stage and all its people actors. No one knows this better than the troubadour. You find energy in the
drama of everyday life and know how to draw spectacle forth from even the most mundane of situations. You accent highs
and deepen lows in service to whomever would witness your performance.

And beyond the mundane, there are insurmountable dangers that cause many a hero to cower. But the troubadour must chase
that drama. The troubadour takes the world stage not to die, but to find out if they are truly alive.

## BASICS

**Starting Characteristics:** You start with an Agility of 2 and a Presence of 2, and can choose one of the following
arrays for your other characteristics scores:

- 2, -1, -1
- 1, 1, -1
- 1, 0, 0

**Weak Potency:** Presence score − 1  
**Average Potency:** Presence score  
**Strong Potency:** Presence score + 1

**Starting Stamina at 1st Level:** 18  
**Stamina Gained at 2nd and greater levels:** 9  
**Recoveries:** 8

**Skills:** You have Read Person and choose two skills from the interpersonal group and one skill from the intrigue or
lore groups.

### TROUBADOUR ADVANCEMENT

| Level | Features                                                                                                                           | Abilities | Class Act Abilities |
|-------|------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|-----------|---------------------|
| 1st   | Class Act, Drama, Scene Partner, Curtain Call, Class Act Features, Class Act Triggered Action, Kit, Troubadour Abilities Signature | 3, 5      |
| 2nd   | Appeal to the Muses, Invocation, Perk, Class Act Ability Signature                                                                 | 3, 5, 5   |
| 3rd   | Class Act Feature, 7-Drama Ability Signature                                                                                       | 3, 5, 7   |

## 1ST-LEVEL FEATURES

As a troubadour, you gain the following features.

### CLASS ACT

Panache, melody, and depiction. Some troubadours have it all, but everyone starts somewhere. Your class act is your
artform, the manner in which you go about unearthing the drama of everyday life and strife.

Choose one of the following class acts. Your choice determines your Act features and Act triggered action in addition to
several features you get at later levels.

- **Duelist:** Drama embraces your every movement done in tandem with another. You perform dances of death, putting
  trust in your opponent to return your passion in kind. You gain the Gymnastics skill.
- **Virtuoso:** You find drama in music and song, weaving magic between the vibrations of your sound and filling the
  audience with your pathos. You wield an instrument. You gain the Music skill.
- **Skald:** You seek drama from story and recount, using your magic to manipulate the sequence of events unfolding
  before you. You gain the Brag skill.

### DRAMA

You are fueled by the dynamic ups, downs, and upside downs of battle. You have a Heroic Resource called drama.

#### DRAMA IN COMBAT

When a combat encounter (or other stressful situation tracked in rounds as determined by the Director) begins, you gain
drama equal to your Victories. At the start of each of your turns during combat, you gain 1d3 drama.

You gain additional drama whenever any of the following events occur during battle:

- A creature within your line of effect rolls a natural 19 or 20: 3 drama
- The first time three or more heroes use an ability on the same turn: 2 drama
- The first time a hero becomes winded: 2 drama
- A hero, including you, dies: 10 drama

You still gain drama during combat while you are dead and your body is intact. During the encounter you died in, if you
have 30 drama accrued, you can choose to come back to life with 1 Stamina and 0 drama as no action. You can’t gain drama
in future encounters while you remain dead.

Your drama disappears at the end of the encounter.

#### DRAMA OUTSIDE OF COMBAT

Though you can’t gain drama outside of combat, you can use your heroic abilities and effects that cost drama without
spending it. Whenever you use an ability or effect that costs drama outside of combat, you can’t use that same ability
or effect again outside of combat until you gain at least 1 Victory or finish a Respite.

### SCENE PARTNER

When you use an interpersonal skill on a test while interacting with an NPC like a bystander or a rival without failing,
you can choose to form a bond with them. During negotiations with this NPC, their patience increases by 1 and compelling
arguments you personally make to the NPC that would increase their interest by 1 instead increase their interest by 2.
You can have a number of bonds active equal to your level, losing a bond of your choice whenever you make a new bond
beyond your limit.

### CURTAIN CALL

You enter every performance with a set of routines at the ready. Routines are auras and other wide-reaching effects that
center around you while you take action. At the start of each round of combat and at the start of each of your turns,
while you are not dazed, dead, or surprised, you can either set a new routine to be active or maintain your current
routine. Your routine ends when you are unable to make this choice or at the end of the encounter.

You have access to the following **Choreography** routine. Your Class Act determines any additional routines you can
select from.

#### CHOREOGRAPHY

*Taps, kicks, steps. Now it's all "choreography."*

- **Keywords:** Area, Magic
- **Type:** Routine
- **Distance:** 5 aura
- **Target:** Self and all allies

**Effect:** Each target that starts their turn within the aura has their speed increased by 2 until the end of their
  turn.

### CLASS ACT FEATURES

Your class act grants you features as shown on the 1st-level Class Act Features table.

#### 1ST-LEVEL CLASS ACT FEATURES

| Class Act | Feature                        |
|-----------|--------------------------------|
| Duelist   | Acrobatics, Star Power         |
| Virtuoso  | Power Chord, Virtuoso Routines |
| Skald     | Blocking, Dramatic Monologue   |

#### ACROBATICS

You have access to the following routine to use with Curtain Call.

##### ACROBATICS

*Folks love a good tumble.*

- **Keywords:** Area, Magic
- **Type:** Routine
- **Distance:** 5 Aura
- **Target:** Self and all allies

**Effect:** While this routine is active, targets that start their turn within the aura can automatically get the
  tier-3 result on one test made to jump, tumble, or climb during their movement until the end of their turn.

#### BLOCKING

You have access to the following routine to use with Curtain Call.

##### BLOCKING

*No, no, no, you lose the audience that way. Try it like this ...*

- **Keywords:** Area, Magic
- **Type:** Routine
- **Distance:** 2 aura
- **Target:** Special

**Effect:** At the end of each round, you can choose a number of creatures equal to your Presence score within the
  aura to be teleported to different, unoccupied squares within the aura. Targets can’t be moved into places where they
  would immediately get hurt, such as over a cliffside or on a bed of spikes, nor can they be moved in a way that would
  result in them suffering a condition, such as grappled or restrained, or other harmful effect.

#### DRAMATIC MONOLOGUE

You have the following ability.

##### DRAMATIC MONOLOGUE

*It doesn't need to make sense, just say it with emotionality.*

- **Keywords:** Magic, Ranged
- **Type:** Maneuver
- **Distance:** Ranged 10
- **Target:** Special

**Effect:** Choose one of the following effects:
    - You herald a rousing tale of victory. An ally within distance has an edge on the next power roll they make before
      the start of your next turn.
    - You weave a tale of caution. An ally within distance has (SHIELD) on the next instance of damage they take until the
      start of your next turn.
    - You insult the enemy where they’re most vulnerable. The next attack made against an enemy within distance has (SURGE)
      until the start of your next turn.
    - **Spend 3 Drama:** You can have 2 targets for any of these effects instead of 1.

#### POWER CHORD

You have the following ability.

##### POWER CHORD

*Your instrument rings true and your music blows everyone away.*

- **Keywords:** Area, Magic
- **Type:** Maneuver
- **Distance:** 2 durst
- **Target:** All enemies
- **Power Roll + Presence:**
    - 11 or lower: push 2
    - 12-16: push 2; the target takes a bane on the next power roll they make before the start of your next turn
    - 17+: push 3; the target takes a bane on the next power roll they make before the start of your next turn

#### STAR POWER

You have the following ability.

##### STAR POWER

*You’re the one they came to see!*

- **Keywords:** –
- **Type:** Maneuver
- **Distance:** Self
- **Target:** Self

**Effect:** Your speed increases by 2 until the end of your turn. The next power roll you make this turn can’t be
  lower than tier-2.
    - **Spend 2 Drama:** Your speed, instead, increases by 4.

#### VIRTUOSO ROUTINES

You have access to the following routines to use with Curtain Call.

##### "THUNDER MOTHER"

*“All-for-thun-der Motherrr! Run-and-hide-for Coverrr!”*

- **Keywords:** Attack, Magic, Ranged
- **Type:** Routine
- **Distance:** Ranged 10
- **Target:** 1 creature

**Effect:** At the end of each round, roll power against a target. This ability ignores cover. You can’t target the
  same creature twice with this effect.

**Power Roll + Presence:**
- 11 or lower: Lightning damage equal to your level
- 12-16: Lightning damage equal to 5 + your level
- 17+: Lightning damage equal to 10 + your level; A [strong] prone

##### "BALLAD OF THE BEAST"

*“Teeth are bare! Eyes black! No escaping the beast!”*

- **Keywords:** Area, Magic
- **Type:** Routine
- **Distance:** 5 Aura
- **Target:** Self and all allies

**Effect:** Each target that starts their turn within the aura has (SURGE) the next time they deal damage until the end of
  their turn.

### CLASS ACT TRIGGERED ACTION

Your class act grants you one of the following triggered actions as shown on the Class Act Triggered Actions table.

#### CLASS ACT TRIGGERED ACTIONS

| Class Act | Triggered Action       |
|-----------|------------------------|
| Duelist   | Riposte                |
| Virtuoso  | Harmonize              |
| Skald     | Turnabout is Fair Play |

#### HARMONIZE (3 DRAMA)

*Gives the chorus a little punch.*

- **Keywords:** —
- **Type:** Triggered
- **Distance:** Ranged 5
- **Target:** 1 ally
- **Trigger:** The target uses a non-area ability that targets an enemy.

**Effect:** The target chooses an additional target within Distance. They use the same power roll for all additional
  targets. Any damage dealt to additional targets is now sonic damage.
    - **Spend 2 Drama:** The target chooses two additional targets instead of one.

#### RIPOSTE

*“I'd have brought treats had I known I’d be fighting a dog.”*

- **Keywords:** —
- **Type:** Triggered
- **Distance:** Melee 1
- **Target:** Self or 1 ally
- **Trigger:** The target takes damage from a melee attack.

**Effect:** The target takes a free strike against the attacker.
    - **Spend 2 Drama:** The target can use a signature attack in place of the free strike.

#### TURNABOUT IS FAIR PLAY

*All's fair in love and whatever.*

- **Keywords:** —
- **Type:** Triggered
- **Distance:** Ranged 10
- **Target:** 1 creature
- **Trigger:** The target makes an attack with at least one edge or a bane.

**Effect:** One of the attack’s edges becomes a bane or vice versa.
    - **Spend 3 Drama:** One of the target’s attack’s edges becomes a double bane, or one of the attack’s banes becomes
      a double edge.

### KIT

You can use and gain the benefits of a kit. See the Kits chapter for more information.

### TROUBADOUR ABILITIES

Your performance centers around rearranging the battlefield and keeping things in motion. You know how to modify the
little details in a scene so that the story flows as dramatically as possible.

#### SIGNATURE ABILITY

Select one signature ability from the options below. Signature abilities can be used at will.

##### ARTFUL FLOURISH

*And they said practicing fencing was a waste!*

- **Keywords:** Attack, Melee, Weapon
- **Type:** Action
- **Distance:** Melee 1
- **Target:** 2 creatures or objects
- **Power Roll + Agility:**
    - 11 or lower: 2 damage
    - 12-16: 3 damage
    - 17+: 5 damage

**Effect:** You shift 3 squares.

**Spend 2+ Drama:** You can target 1 additional creature or object in range for every 2 drama you spend.

##### CUTTING SARCASM

*There you are, radiating your usual charisma.*

- **Keywords:** Attack, Magic, Ranged, Weapon
- **Type:** Action
- **Distance:** Ranged 10
- **Target:** 1 creature or object
- **Power Roll + Presence:**
    - 11 or lower: 2 sonic damage; P [weak] bleeding (save ends)
    - 12-16: 4 damage; P [average] bleeding (save ends)
    - 17+: 5 damage; P [strong] bleeding (save ends)

##### INSTIGATOR

*I didn't do it! What?*

- **Keywords:** Attack, Melee, Weapon
- **Type:** Action
- **Distance:** Melee 1
- **Target:** 1 creature
- **Power Roll + Agility or Presence:**
    - 11 or lower: 2 damage
    - 12-16: 5 damage
    - 17+: 7 damage

**Effect:** The target is taunted (EoT) by you or a willing adjacent ally.

##### WITTY BANTER

*A lyrical (and physical) jab insulting an enemy and inspiring an ally.*

- **Keywords:** Attack, Magic, Melee, Ranged
- **Type:** Action
- **Distance:** Melee 1 or Ranged 5
- **Target:** 1 creature
- **Power Roll + Presence:**
    - 11 or lower: 1 psychic damage
    - 12-16: 2 psychic damage
    - 17+: 3 psychic damage

**Effect:** An ally within 10 removes 1 condition or effect with a duration of EoT or save ends afflicting them.

**Spend 1 Drama:** That ally can also spend 1 Recovery.

#### HEROIC ABILITIES

You know abilities that cost drama to use called heroic abilities.

##### 3-DRAMA ABILITIES

Choose one heroic ability from the following options.

###### HARSH CRITIC (3 DRAMA)

*Just one bad review will ruin their day.*

- **Keywords:** Attack, Magic, Melee, Ranged
- **Type:** Action
- **Distance:** Melee 1 or Ranged 10
- **Target:** 1 creature or object
- **Power Roll + Presence:**
    - 11 or lower: 4 sonic damage; P [weak] weakened (save ends)
    - 12-16: 6 sonic damage; P [average] weakened (save ends)
    - 17+: 10 sonic damage; P [strong] weakened (save ends)

**Effect:** The effects of the next ability the target uses before the start of your next turn are suppressed. Any
  effects listed within a result tier other than damage don’t occur. This doesn’t apply to ability effects that always
  happen regardless of the power roll.

###### HYPNOTIC OVERTONES (3 DRAMA)

*You produce an entrancing note that twists the senses in a spectacular fashion.*

- **Keywords:** Area, Magic
- **Type:** Action
- **Distance:** 2 Burst
- **Target:** All enemies

**Power Roll + Presence:**
- 11 or lower: slide 1; I [weak] dazed (save ends)
- 12-16: slide 1; I [average] dazed (save ends)
- 17+: slide 2; I [strong] dazed (save ends)

**Spend 2+ Drama:** The burst size is increased by 1 for every 2 drama you spend.

###### QUICK REWRITE (3 DRAMA)

*You write something unforeseen into the scene and under the enemy’s feet.*

- **Keywords:** Area, Magic, Ranged
- **Type:** Action
- **Distance:** 3 Cube within 10
- **Target:** All enemies
- **Power Roll + Presence:**
    - 11 or lower: 2 damage; P [weak] slowed (save ends)
    - 12-16: 3 damage; P [average] slowed (save ends)
    - 17+: 4 damage; P [strong] restrained (save ends)

**Effect:** The area becomes difficult terrain for your enemies.

###### UPSTAGE (3 DRAMA)

*As you bob and weave through the crowd, you can’t help but leave the audience wanting.*

- **Keywords:** Attack, Melee, Weapon
- **Type:** Maneuver
- **Distance:** Self
- **Target:** Self

**Effect:** You shift up to your speed. You make one power roll that targets each enemy who becomes adjacent to you
  during the move.

**Power Roll + Agility or Presence:**
- 11 or lower: taunted (EoT); A [weak] prone
- 12–16: taunted (EoT); A [average] prone
- 17+: taunted (EoT); A [strong] prone can’t stand (EoT)

##### 5-DRAMA ABILITIES

Choose one heroic ability from the following options.

###### DRAMATIC REVERSAL (5 DRAMA)

*Give the audience a surprise.*

- **Keywords:** Magic
- **Type:** Action
- **Distance:** 3 Burst
- **Target:** Self and all allies
- **Power Roll + Presence:**
    - 11 or lower: shift 1; target can take a free strike
    - 12-16: shift 2; target can take a free strike with (SURGE)
    - 17+: shift 3; target can take a free strike with (SURGE) and spend 1 Recovery

###### FAKE YOUR DEATH (5 DRAMA)

*O happy dagger, this is thy sheath!*

- **Keywords:** Magic
- **Type:** Maneuver
- **Distance:** Self
- **Target:** Self

**Effect:** You turn invisible and create a magical illusion of your corpse falling in your square. While invisible,
  your speed increases by 3 and you ignore difficult terrain. The illusion melts into the ground and your invisibility
  ends if the illusion is interacted with, you take damage, you perform an action or a maneuver, or at the end of your
  next turn.

###### FLIP THE SCRIPT (5 DRAMA)

*You try a different take on events, justifying the new locations everyone ended up in.*

- **Keywords:** Magic
- **Type:** Action
- **Distance:** 3 Burst
- **Target:** Self and all allies

**Effect:** Each willing target immediately teleports up to their speed. Teleported targets that were slowed are no
  longer slowed.

###### METHOD ACTING (5 DRAMA)

*They're so hurt by your performance, you sort of start to believe it yourself.*

- **Keywords:** Attack, Melee, Weapon
- **Type:** Action
- **Distance:** Melee 1
- **Target:** 1 creature
- **Power Roll + Agility or Presence:**
    - 11 or lower: 7 damage; P [weak] weakened (save ends)
    - 12-16: 11 damage; P [average] weakened (save ends)
    - 17+: 16 damage; P [strong] weakened (save ends)

**Effect:** You can choose to be inflicted with bleeding (save ends) to deal an additional 5 corruption damage to the
  target.

## 2ND-LEVEL FEATURES

As a 2nd-level troubadour, you gain the following features.

### APPEAL TO THE MUSES

You can give a rousing speech, invoke your inspirations, or lift your fellows’ spirits to heighten the drama of your
present circumstances. However, irony is eager to hand your fortune to the villain and achieve the same ends.

When you roll to gain drama, you can make your appeal and gain the additional effects (no action required):

- If your drama roll is a 1, you gain 1 additional drama, but the Director also gains 1 Malice.
- If your drama roll is a 2, you gain 1 Heroic Resource which you can keep or give to an ally within distance of your
  active routine. The Director also gains 1 Malice.
- If your drama roll is a 3, you gain 2 Heroic Resources, which you can distribute amongst yourself and any allies
  within distance of your active routine.

### EXTRA SURGE

Your (SURGE) limit increases by 1, for a maximum of (SURGE)(SURGE)(SURGE)(SURGE).

### INVOCATION

You have a manner in which you invoke your collective reputations. Select one of the following features.

#### ALLOW ME TO INTRODUCE TONIGHT'S PLAYERS

When you take the first turn in a combat encounter, you can use your action to introduce you and your allies to your
opponents. All creatures on your side can shift up to their speed and have the benefit of the Defend action until the
end of the round. Any enemies that were surprised are no longer surprised.

#### FORMAL INTRODUCTIONS

As a respite activity, you can scribe a notice of your arrival, such as a calling card or a formal letter, addressed to
an enemy and have it delivered. You can choose to deliver it to the target personally, via a courier, or leave it in a
covert location for the target to find. You can only have one notice active at a time.

It is up to the Director when the target receives the notice. Once the target receives your notice, they become alarmed
and take desperate measures to stop you. The Director gains 1 additional Malice per round during future encounters
involving the target. You and your allies start these encounters with 2 additional hero tokens. These hero tokens
disappear at the end of the encounter.

#### MY REPUTATION PRECEDES ME

You can choose to invoke your reputation at the start of a social interaction with a community that hasn’t met you
before, automatically creating a bond with a representative NPC as if using your Scene Partner feature. While the bond
is active, all present heroes are treated as having 2 higher Renown for the purposes of negotiations and influencing
tests with the community.

The Director may choose to award the heroes with 1 Hero Token to stop you from forming this bond and make you infamous
with the community instead. All present heroes have a bane on interpersonal skill tests with the community until actions
are taken to improve your reputations. You can still use your Scene Partner feature to find allies within the community.

### PERK

You gain an interpersonal, lore, or supernatural perk of your choice. See Perks for more information.

### 5-DRAMA ACT ABILITY

Your class act grants your choice of one of two abilities.

#### DUELIST ABILITIES

Choose one of the following abilities.

##### CLASSIC CHANDELIER STUNT (5 DRAMA)

*Audiences love this bit.*

- **Keywords:** Attack, Melee, Weapon
- **Type:** Action
- **Distance:** Self and Melee 1
- **Target:** Self and 1 willing ally

**Effect:** The targets shift up to 5 squares, including vertically. The targets must end this movement adjacent to
  each other and on solid ground. Each target can then take a free strike with (SURGE)(SURGE) against an enemy within reach.

##### EN GUARDE! (5 DRAMA)

*Wait it's...Guard! Turn! Parry! Dodge! Spin! Thrust! Hah!*

- **Keywords:** Attack, Melee, Weapon
- **Type:** Action
- **Distance:** Melee 1
- **Target:** 1 creature
- **Power Roll + Agility:**
    - 11 or lower: 7 damage; target can shift 3 and take a free strike against you
    - 12-16: 11 damage; target can shift 2 and take a free strike against you
    - 17+: 16 damage; target can shift 1

**Effect:** If the target shifts or takes a free strike against you during this ability, you can shift 3 and take a
  melee free strike against the target. If the target deals damage to you during this ability, you have (SURGE) on your free
  strike.

#### VIRTUOSO ABILITIES

Choose one of the following abilities.

##### ENCORE (5 DRAMA)

*Again! Again!*

- **Keywords:** Attack, Magic
- **Type:** Action
- **Distance:** Special
- **Target:** Special

**Effect:** You recreate and enact a non-Villain Action attack you have observed this round, using your Presence score
  for any power rolls and sonic damage for any damage dealt.

##### TOUGH CROWD (5 DRAMA)

*Your fans don't seem to like the opening act...*

- **Keywords:** Area, Magic, Ranged
- **Type:** Maneuver
- **Distance:** 3 Cube within 10
- **Target:** Special

**Effect:** The affected area becomes haunted by a swirling horde of phantoms brutally dancing in a circle until the
  end of the encounter. An ally can enter a square of the area without spending movement. At the start of each of your
  turns, or once per round as a free triggered action whenever an enemy enters the area, you can target all enemies
  occupying a square of the area with the following power roll.

**Power Roll + Presence:**
- 11 or lower: 5 corruption damage; M [weak] pull 1 towards center of square
- 12-16: 9 corruption damage; M [average] pull 1 towards center of square and can’t establish line of effect outside of
affected area (EoT)
- 17+: 12 corruption damage; M [strong] pull 3 towards center of square and can’t establish line of effect outside of
affected area (EoT)

#### SKALD ABILITIES

Choose one of the following abilities.

##### GUEST STAR (5 DRAMA)

*We offered them a percentage of the gross. So, they're working for free!*

- **Keywords:** Magic, Ranged
- **Type:** Action
- **Distance:** Ranged 10
- **Target:** Special

**Effect:** Either a bystander within distance is uplifted by your magic, or a mysterious new hero appears in an
  unoccupied space to help out during the encounter. The target is controlled by you, has their own separate turn,
  shares your characteristics and your maximum Stamina, and uses your melee and ranged weapon free strikes to attack.
  When the target is reduced to 0 Stamina or at the end of the encounter, they retreat (or revert to a bystander). A
  bystander can’t be uplifted in this way more than once in a single encounter.

##### TWIST AT THE END (5 DRAMA)

*You didn’t see that coming, did you?!*

- **Keywords:** Magic, Ranged
- **Type:** Action
- **Distance:** Ranged 10
- **Target:** 1 dead enemy

**Effect:** The target comes back to life with half their Stamina as an ally under the Director’s control. The heroes
  can discuss with the Director when the target should take their turn each round. The target turns to dust and blows
  away at the end of the encounter.

## 3RD-LEVEL FEATURES

As a 3rd-level troubadour, you gain the following features.

### 3RD-LEVEL CLASS ACT FEATURES

You’re becoming a natural at your act. You’ve picked up on a few new tricks and songs as shown on the 3rd-Level Class
Act Features table.

#### 3RD-LEVEL CLASS ACT FEATURES

| Doctrine | Feature                  |
|----------|--------------------------|
| Duelist  | Foil                     |
| Virtuoso | Second Album             |
| Skald    | Recast a Supporting Part |

#### FOIL

Select one creature within line of effect at the start of an encounter. You have a double edge on power rolls made
against, or in competition with, your target. Likewise, the target also has a double edge on power rolls made against,
or in competition with, you. If the target dies, you can select a new target at the start of the next round.

#### RECAST A SUPPORTING PART

If you aren’t surprised at the beginning of an encounter, you can choose one non-boss or non-solo enemy within line of
effect and have the director swap them out with a squad of minions that doesn't exceed the enemy's encounter value. This
can’t be used against an enemy directly associated with a special objective.

#### SECOND ALBUM

You have access to two additional routines to use with Curtain Call.

##### "FIRE UP THE NIGHT"

*“Maybe you and I; we can still bring the light!”*

- **Keywords:** Area, Magic
- **Type:** Routine
- **Distance:** 5 Aura
- **Target:** Self and all allies

**Effect:** While this routine is active, each target that starts their turn within the aura doesn't suffer a bane
  when targeting concealed enemies. They can also search for hidden creatures as a free maneuver once during their turn.

##### "NEVERENDING HERO"

*“And toniiight we can truly say; they will alllways find a way!”*

- **Keywords:** Area, Magic
- **Type:** Routine
- **Distance:** 5 Aura
- **Target:** Self and all allies

**Effect:** While this routine is active, each target that starts their turn dying within the aura has an edge on
  their power rolls and ignores the effects of bleeding until the end of their turn.

### 7-DRAMA ABILITY

Choose a new heroic ability from the following options.

#### EXTENSIVE REWRITES (7 DRAMA)

*No this isn’t right. That foe was over there!*

- **Keywords:** Area, Magic, Ranged
- **Type:** Maneuver
- **Distance:** 4 Burst
- **Target:** All enemies
- **Power Roll + Presence:**
    - 11 or lower: slide 3; P [weak] forced movement ignores stability
    - 12-16: slide 5; P [average] forced movement ignores stability
    - 17+: slide 7; P [strong] forced movement ignores stability

**Effect:** You can’t slide targets into other creatures or objects using this ability. Instead of sliding a target,
  you can choose to swap their location with another target (provided each target can fit into the new space).

#### INFERNAL GAVOTTE (7 DRAMA)

*A spicy performance that lights a fire under your allies’ feet.*

- **Keywords:** Area, Magic, Weapon
- **Type:** Action
- **Distance:** 3 Burst
- **Target:** All enemies
- **Power Roll + Agility or Presence:**
    - 11 or lower: 3 fire damage; A [weak] weakened (save ends)
    - 12-16: 5 fire damage; A [average] weakened (save ends)
    - 17+: 8 fire damage; A [strong] weakened (save ends)

**Effect:** Each ally in range can shift 2.

#### VIRTUOSO'S SOLO (7 DRAMA)

*Your performance travels and doesn’t stop moving until your audience is completely rocked.*

- **Keywords:** Attack, Magic, Melee, Ranged, Weapon
- **Type:** Action
- **Distance:** Melee 1 or Ranged 10
- **Target:** 1 creature or object
- **Power Roll + Agility or Presence:**
    - 11 or lower: 9 damage
    - 12-16: 14 damage; push 3
    - 17+: 19 damage; push 5

**Effect:** You can choose to make the damage sonic damage. You can use this ability on the same target for the next
  two consecutive rounds without spending drama.

#### WE MEET AT LAST, LET’S FINISH THIS (7 DRAMA)

*Totus mundus agit histrionem.*

- **Keywords:** —
- **Type:** Maneuver
- **Distance:** Line of effect
- **Target:** 1 creature

**Effect:** Until the end of the encounter, both you and the target can target each other with abilities even if you
  would be out of distance. Secondary effects that grapple or force move the target don’t happen if you aren’t within
  the distance of the ability. On each of your turns, you can take a free maneuver to communicate a motivating or
  dispiriting message to the target, either giving them (SURGE)(SURGE) or a bane on the next attack they use before the start of
  your next turn.

# KITS

The knight in shining armor. The warrior priest. The sniper. Censors, furies, shadows, tacticians, and troubadours can
tap into these and many more archetypal concepts using kits. A kit is a combination of weapons, armor, and fighting
techniques that lets you personalize martial heroes for battle.

## CHANGING YOUR KIT

Your choice of kit is always flexible, and your hero is never locked into a specific kit. If you want to change your
kit, you can do so as a respite activity (see Respite).

## KIT EQUIPMENT

Each kit includes an armor entry and a weapons entry. It’s important to know what equipment a kit uses, because that
informs your hero’s appearance and story. It also determines the type of magic and psionic treasures they can wield.

The description of gear in your kit is limited to broad categories, leaving you free to decide the specifics that best
align with your vision of the character. For instance, the Guisarmier kit provides medium armor and a polearm. One
player using this kit could wear heavy layers of hide and wield a longspear, while another might wear a shining
breastplate and carry a halberd into battle.

The equipment categories your kit gives you are part of what affects the math behind your kit’s benefits, alongside the
fighting techniques each kit provides.

You can wear armor and wield weapons that aren’t part of your kit, but if you don’t, you don’t get your kit’s bonuses.

### CUSTOMIZING EQUIPMENT APPEARANCES

You should absolutely feel free to describe your equipment in a way that makes sense for the story of your game and
hero. For instance, if your hero uses a weapon in the whip category as part of their kit, they could use a leather whip,
a spiked chain, or a dagger tied to a knotted rope. A hero who wears heavy armor might wear a suit of chain mail, plate
armor, or heavy wooden planks tied together. Your choices for equipment aren’t limited just to the examples in this
book.

### KIT ARMOR CATEGORIES

Each kit has an armor category that indicates the kind of protection you have while using the kit.

#### NONE

If a kit has no armor, you can wear whatever clothing you like! Robes, a fashionable tunic and pants, or just a
loincloth—it’s totally up to you.

#### LIGHT ARMOR

If a kit features light armor, you might wear padded cloth, leather armor, or even a chain shirt.

#### MEDIUM ARMOR

If a kit has medium armor, you might wear layers of thick hides, a breastplate, or armor made of metal scales.

#### HEAVY ARMOR

If a kit has heavy armor, then you’re likely wearing metal from head to toe. Chain mail, ring mail, and suits of plate
armor protect you better than any other mundane protection.

#### SHIELD

If a kit has a shield, then you wield a shield that can be any shape and made of any mundane material you like. The best
shields have a sweet insignia on them, so start thinking about yours!

### KIT WEAPON CATEGORIES

Each kit has a weapon category that indicates the types of weapons you wield while using the kit. You can use any
ability with the Weapon keyword even if your kit doesn’t have a weapon, but you don’t get to apply your kit’s bonuses to
that ability.

#### BOW

Bows cover any weapon used to fire an arrow or bolt projectile. This includes crossbows, longbows, and shortbows. You
don’t need to track mundane ammunition for these weapons, unless the Director says otherwise.

#### ENSNARING WEAPON

Ensnaring weapons include bolas, nets, and other weapons made to capture an enemy and hold them in place.

#### HEAVY WEAPON

Heavy weapons are two-handed melee weapons with weighty bladed or bludgeoning heads, made to seriously harm or kill
enemies in a single mighty blow. Greatswords, greataxes, mauls, and morningstars are all examples of heavy weapons.

#### LIGHT WEAPON

Light weapons are one-handed melee weapons that can be used to make several strikes in rapid succession. Many such
weapons can be thrown or used as an off-hand defensive weapon. Daggers, shortswords, rapiers, and throwing hammers are
typical light weapons.

If your kit uses a light weapon, you can wield two light weapons at a time.

#### MEDIUM WEAPON

Medium weapons are one-handed melee weapons that can be carried into battle while leaving one hand free, or while using
that hand to hold a shield or implement. Battleaxes, clubs, longswords, and warhammers are medium weapons.

#### POLEARM

Polearms are two-handed melee weapons with long hafts that increase the wielder’s reach. They include glaives, halberds,
longspears, and quarterstaffs.

#### UNARMED STRIKE

Any kit that uses unarmed strikes allows you to use your body as a weapon. Punches, kicks, eye gouges, and the like are
your forte.

#### WHIP

Whip weapons include the standard whip, but also include spiked chains, flails, and any similarly long and flexible
melee weapon.

#### IMPROVISED WEAPONS

Improvised weapons include rocks, bottles, plates, furniture, and anything else you pick up that can be bashed, hurled,
or stabbed into an enemy. As well, any weapons that aren’t part of your kit count as improvised weapons for you. If
you’re not using a kit with unarmed strikes, then your feet and fists are improvised weapons. If you’re not using a kit
and pick up a sword to use as part of a melee free strike, the sword counts as an improvised weapon.

Improvised weapons can be used to make attacks with the Weapon keyword that you gain from your class, though not from
your kit. They add no special bonuses from your kit to the attack. Many melee-focused heroes choose a kit that maximizes
their melee capabilities, then make ranged free strikes with improvised weapons.

### KITS AND TREASURES

When you find a supernatural item such as a magic sword, you can use the item as long as it matches one of your kit’s
equipment categories. A Blade of Quintessence is a medium weapon, so you can use it with the Ranger or Shining Armor
kits. However, you can’t use it with the Cloak and Dagger or Spellslinger kits because those kits don’t use medium
weapons, meaning you haven’t done the necessary preparations to use the weapon effectively. You can still swing a Blade
of Quintessence around, but you don’t get any of its bonuses or benefits.

If you find a piece of equipment you really want to use that isn’t part of your kit, you can always change your kit as a
respite activity.

## KIT BONUSES AND TRAITS

A kit can increase your Stamina, speed, and stability, as well as the damage, distance, and reach of your weapon
abilities. Kit bonuses are applied to free strikes.

### STAMINA BONUS

Your kit’s Stamina bonus is added to your Stamina maximum.

### SPEED BONUS

Your kit’s speed bonus is added to your speed.

### STABILITY BONUS

Your kit’s stability bonus is added to your stability.

### DAMAGE BONUSES

Martial and caster kits can grant you a bonus to damage with certain types of abilities.

#### MELEE DAMAGE BONUS

Kits can have a melee damage bonus. This bonus is added to abilities with both the Melee and Weapon keywords that deal
damage.

#### RANGED DAMAGE BONUS

Kits can have a ranged damage bonus. This bonus is added to abilities with both the Ranged and Weapon keywords that deal
damage.

#### BONUSES ACROSS TIERS

Kit damage bonuses are presented as “+X/+Y/+Z.” The X bonus is added to qualifying tier 1 power roll results, the Y
bonus is added to qualifying tier 2 power roll results, and the Z bonus is added to qualifying tier 3 power roll
results. For example, the Shining Armor Kit has a +2/+2/+2 melee damage bonus, increasing the damage of your abilities
with the Melee and Weapon keywords across all tier results. The Sniper kit has a +0/+0/+3 ranged damage bonus, having no
effect on tier 1 and 2 results, increasing the damage of tier 3 results by 3 for your ranged weapon abilities.

### DISTANCE BONUS

Your kit’s ranged distance bonus increases the distance of your abilities with the Ranged and Weapon keywords. Your
kit’s melee distance bonus increases the distance of your abilities with the Melee and Weapon keywords. A distance bonus
doesn’t increase the size of any ability’s area of effect.

### DISENGAGE BONUS

Your kit’s disengage bonus increases the number of squares you can shift when you take the Disengage move action. You
can shift an additional number of squares equal to the bonus when you use Disengage.

## KIT SIGNATURE ABILITY

Each kit grants you a signature ability, which already includes the kit’s bonuses.

For details on the ability format, see Abilities.

### OPTIONAL RULE: LOSING EQUIPMENT

The rules of the game expect that heroes always have access to their equipment. That’s because for most of the time in
the game, heroes aren’t worried about surviving for days on end in a dungeon and tracking every piece of gear they
carry. However, there could be times where your group wants to tell a story of heroes who are captured and stripped of
their equipment, or who find themselves at a masquerade where weapons need to be checked at the door. For those sorts of
scenarios, you can use the following rules:

- If your kit has armor and you aren’t wearing or wielding it, then you lose your kit’s bonuses to Stamina and
  stability. If you lose your shield but keep the rest of your armor, your Stamina decreases by 3. As long as you are
  carrying your shield, you don’t lose its bonus to Stamina, even if you aren’t actively wielding it.
- If your kit has a medium or heavy weapon that you aren’t wielding, you lose the kit’s melee damage bonus.
- If your kit has a light weapon that you aren’t wielding, you lose the kit’s melee damage, ranged damage, and distance
  bonus.
- If your kit has a reach weapon or whip that you aren’t wielding, you lose the kit’s melee damage and reach bonus.
- If your kit has an ensnaring weapon that you aren’t wielding, you lose the kit’s signature ability.

## KITS A TO Z

This section details each kit, whose bonuses and benefits are summarized in the Martial Kits table.

### ARCANE ARCHER

The Arcane Archer kit allows you to combine magic and ranged weapon attacks. Your lack of armor keeps you mobile, and
your magic makes your arrows explode to devastate your foes.

#### EQUIPMENT

You wear no armor and wield a bow.

#### KIT BONUSES

- Speed Bonus: +1
- Ranged Damage Bonus: +2/+2/+2
- Weapon Distance Bonus: +10
- Disengage Bonus: +1

#### SIGNATURE ABILITY

**EXPLODING ARROW**

Your ammunition explodes with magical energy. 

- **Keywords:** Attack, Magic, Ranged, Weapon  
- **Type:** Action  
- **Distance:** Ranged 15  
- **Target:** 1 creature or object

*Power Roll + Agility, Reason, Intuition, or Presence:*

- 11 or lower: 4 damage
- 12–16: 6 damage
- 17+: 8 damage

*Effect:* A creature or object within 2 squares of your target takes (SURGE) damage.

### BATTLEMIND

Who says lightly armored heroes can’t also be hard to move? You just need to employ some psionics! You can use the
Battlemind kit to harness the power of your mind to make yourself harder to move and your foes easier to push around.

#### EQUIPMENT

You wear light armor and wield a medium weapon.

#### KIT BONUSES

- Stamina Bonus: +3
- Speed Bonus: +2
- Stability Bonus: +1
- Melee Damage Bonus: +2/+2/+2

#### SIGNATURE ABILITY

**UNMOORING**

Your weapon unleashes psionic energy that reduces your target’s weight. 

- **Keywords:** Attack, Melee, Psionic, Weapon  
- **Type:** Action  
- **Distance:** Melee 1  
- **Target:** 1 creature

*Power Roll + Might, Reason, Intuition, or Presence:*

- 11 or lower: 5 damage; stability reduced by 1 (EoT)
- 12–16: 7 damage; stability reduced by 2 (EoT)
- 17+: 10 damage; stability reduced by 3 (EoT)

### CLOAK AND DAGGER

Providing throwable light weapons and light armor easily concealed by a cloak to confuse your enemies, the Cloak and
Dagger kit makes you more mobile while providing a boost to your effectiveness at range and to your damage. This kit is
good for a hero who wants to be able to move all over the battlefield while keeping their options open for using
short-range attacks.

#### EQUIPMENT

You wear light armor and wield one or two light weapons.

#### KIT BONUSES

- Stamina Bonus: +3
- Speed Bonus: +2
- Melee Damage Bonus: +1/+1/+1
- Ranged Damage Bonus: +1/+1/+1
- Ranged Distance Bonus: +5
- Disengage Bonus: +1

#### SIGNATURE ABILITY

**FADE**

A stab, and a few quick, careful steps back. 

- **Keywords:** Attack, Melee, Ranged, Weapon  
- **Type:** Action  
- **Distance:** Melee 1 or range 10  
- **Target:** 1 creature

*Power Roll + Might or Agility:*

- 11 or lower: 3 damage; you shift 1 square
- 12–16: 4 damage; you shift up to 2 squares
- 17+: 6 damage; you shift up to 3 squares

### DUAL WIELDER

The Dual Wielder kit is for folks who want to excel at using two weapons at the same time. The fighting style maximizes
the power of each instrument in your hands, making you a whirling deliverer of death.

#### EQUIPMENT

You wear medium armor and wield a light weapon and a medium weapon.

#### KIT BONUSES

- Stamina Bonus: +2
- Speed Bonus: +2
- Melee Damage Bonus: +2/+2/+2
- Disengage Bonus: +1

#### SIGNATURE ABILITY

**DOUBLE STRIKE**

Why strike once when you could do it twice? 

- **Keywords:** Attack, Melee, Weapon  
- **Type:** Action  
- **Distance:** Melee 1  
- **Target:** 2 creatures or objects

*Power Roll + Might or Agility:*

- 11 or lower: 4 damage
- 12–16: 5 damage
- 17+: 6 damage

*Effect:* If you use this ability on your turn, you can target one creature or object with it then use your maneuver and
move action for that turn before targeting a second creature or object. You still use the same power roll for both
targets.

### GUISARMIER

The Guisarmier kit is for those who want to use a polearm for extended reach and still gain the extra protection of
armor. This is the kit that allows you to become the ultimate halberd, longspear, or glaive fighter.

#### EQUIPMENT

You wear medium armor and wield a polearm.

#### KIT BONUSES

- Stamina Bonus: +6
- Stability Bonus: +1
- Melee Damage Bonus: +2/+2/+2
- Melee Distance Bonus: +1

#### SIGNATURE ABILITY

**FORWARD THRUST, BACKWARD SMASH**

In your hands, the haft is as good as the head. 

- **Keywords:** Attack, Melee, Weapon  
- **Type:** Action  
- **Distance:** Melee 2  
- **Target:** 2 creatures or objects

*Power Roll + Might or Agility:*

- 11 or lower: 4 damage
- 12–16: 5 damage
- 17+: 7 damage

### MARTIAL ARTIST

If you want to be fast in a fight, then Martial Artist is the kit for you. Unencumbered by weapons or armor, this
fighting style rewards quick, focused unarmed strikes to opponents, and allows you to be the ultimate skirmisher.

#### EQUIPMENT

You wear no armor and wield only your unarmed strikes.

#### KIT BONUSES

- Stamina Bonus: +3
- Speed Bonus: +3
- Melee Damage Bonus: +2/+2/+2
- Disengage Bonus: +1

#### SIGNATURE ABILITY

**BATTLE GRACE**

You feint to move your enemies into perfect position. 

- **Keywords:** Attack, Melee, Weapon  
- **Type:** Action  
- **Distance:** Melee 1  
- **Target:** 1 creature

*Power Roll + Might or Agility:*

- 11 or lower: 4 damage
- 12–16: 7 damage; you swap places with the target
- 17+: 9 damage; you swap places with the target

*Effect:* If you roll a 12 or better and can’t swap places with the target because one or both of you is too big to fit
into the swapped space, you both remain in your original spaces and the target takes 1 extra damage.

### MOUNTAIN

The Mountain kit does exactly what it says on the tin. You don heavy armor and a heavy weapon to stand strong against
your foes, quickly demolishing them when it’s your turn to attack.

#### EQUIPMENT

You wear heavy armor and wield a heavy weapon.

#### KIT BONUSES

- Stamina Bonus: +9
- Stability Bonus: +2
- Melee Damage Bonus: +0/+0/+3

#### SIGNATURE ABILITY

**PAIN FOR PAIN**

An enemy who tagged you will pay for that. 

- **Keywords:** Attack, Melee, Weapon  
- **Type:** Action  
- **Distance:** Melee 1  
- **Target:** 1 creature

*Power Roll + Might or Agility:*

- 11 or lower: 3 damage
- 12–16: 5 damage
- 17+: 11 damage

*Effect:* If the target dealt damage to you since the end of your last turn, this attack gains (SURGE).

### PANTHER

If you want a good balance of protection, speed, and damage, the Panther kit is for you. This kit increases your Stamina
not by wearing armor, but through the focused battle preparation of body and mind, letting you be fast and mobile while
swinging a heavy weapon at your foes.

#### EQUIPMENT

You wear no armor and wield a heavy weapon.

#### KIT BONUSES

- Stamina Bonus: +6
- Speed Bonus: +1
- Stability Bonus: +1
- Melee Damage Bonus: +0/+0/+3

#### SIGNATURE ABILITY

**DEVASTATING RUSH**

The faster you move, the harder you hit. 

- **Keywords:** Attack, Melee, Weapon  
- **Type:** Action  
- **Distance:** Melee 1  
- **Target:** 1 creature or object

*Power Roll + Might or Agility:*

- 11 or lower: 2 damage
- 12–16: 5 damage
- 17+: 10 damage

*Effect:* You can move up to 3 squares straight toward the target before this attack. You deal extra damage equal to the
distance moved this way.

### PUGILIST

Meant for brawlers and boxers, the Pugilist kit gives you access to a melee fighting style that gives you a boost to
Stamina and damage while allowing you to float like a butterfly. If you want to be a tough, strong hero who doles out
punishment with your fists, then this kit is for you.

#### EQUIPMENT

You wear no armor and wield only your unarmed strikes.

#### KIT BONUSES

- Stamina Bonus: +6
- Speed Bonus: +2
- Stability Bonus: +1
- Melee Damage Bonus: +1/+1/+1

#### SIGNATURE ABILITY

**LET’S DANCE**

Keeping your enemies stumbling around the battlefield is second nature to you. 

- **Keywords:** Attack, Melee, Weapon  
- **Type:** Action  
- **Distance:** Melee 1  
- **Target:** 1 creature

*Power Roll + Might or Agility:*

- 11 or lower: 3 damage
- 12–16: 4 damage; slide 1
- 17+: 6 damage; slide 2

*Effect:* You can shift into any square your target leaves after you slide them.

### RAIDER

The Raider kit keeps you protected while granting you full mobility, providing a boost to speed and distance that lets
you run around the battlefield like a Viking warrior.

#### EQUIPMENT

You wear light armor, and wield a shield and a light weapon.

#### KIT BONUSES

- Stamina Bonus: +6
- Speed Bonus: +1
- Melee Damage Bonus: +1/+1/+1
- Ranged Damage Bonus: +1/+1/+1
- Ranged Distance Bonus: +5
- Disengage Bonus: +1

#### SIGNATURE ABILITY

**SHOCK AND AWE**

You execute a brutal strike that leaves your foe reeling. 

- **Keywords:** Attack, Melee, Ranged, Weapon  
- **Type:** Action  
- **Distance:** Melee 1 or Ranged 10  
- **Target:** 1 creature

*Power Roll + Might or Agility:*

- 11 or lower: 3 damage
- 12–16: 4 damage
- 17+: 6 damage

*Effect:* The target has a bane on their next power roll.

### RANGER

The Ranger kit outfits you with light armor and several weapons, letting you easily switch between using a melee weapon
and a bow. This kit provides a good balance of bonuses to Stamina, speed, damage, and range to create a hero who is a
jack-of-all-trades.

#### EQUIPMENT

You wear medium armor and wield a medium weapon and a bow.

#### KIT BONUSES

- Stamina Bonus: +6
- Speed Bonus: +1
- Melee Damage Bonus: +1/+1/+1
- Ranged Damage Bonus: +1/+1/+1
- Ranged Distance Bonus: +5
- Disengage Bonus: +1

#### SIGNATURE ABILITY

**HAMSTRING SHOT**

A well-placed shot leaves your enemy struggling to move. 

- **Keywords:** Attack, Ranged, Weapon  
- **Type:** Action  
- **Distance:** Ranged 10  
- **Target:** 1 creature

*Power Roll + Might or Agility:*

- 11 or lower: 3 damage; A [weak] slowed (save ends)
- 12–16: 4 damage; A [average] slowed (save ends)
- 17+: 5 damage; A [strong] slowed (save ends)

### RAPID-FIRE

The Rapid-Fire kit is for archers who want to deal maximum damage by shooting as many arrows as possible into nearby
enemies. With this kit, your fighting technique focuses on peppering foes at medium range.

#### EQUIPMENT

You wear light armor and wield a bow.

#### KIT BONUSES

- Stamina Bonus: +3
- Speed Bonus: +1
- Ranged Damage Bonus: +2/+2/+2
- Ranged Distance Bonus: +7
- Disengage Bonus: +1

#### SIGNATURE ABILITY

**TWO SHOT**

When you fire two arrows back to back, both hit their mark. 

- **Keywords:** Attack, Ranged, Weapon  
- **Type:** Action  
- **Distance:** Ranged 12  
- **Target:** 2 creatures or objects

*Power Roll + Might or Agility:*

- 11 or lower: 4 damage
- 12–16: 5 damage
- 17+: 6 damage

### RETIARIUS

The retiarius is often depicted as a lightly armored warrior with a net in one hand and a trident in the other, and this
kit gives you the equipment and fighting technique to make that happen. Tie up your foe with a net and then poke them to
death!

#### EQUIPMENT

You wear light armor, and wield a polearm and several ensnaring weapons.

#### KIT BONUSES

- Stamina Bonus: +3
- Speed Bonus: +1
- Melee Damage Bonus: +2/+2/+2
- Melee Distance Bonus: +1
- Disengage Bonus: +1

#### SIGNATURE ABILITY

**NET AND STAB**

The well-thrown net that follows your main attack leaves your foes right where you want them. 

- **Keywords:** Attack, Melee, Weapon  
- **Type:** Action  
- **Distance:** Melee 2  
- **Target:** 1 creature

*Power Roll + Might or Agility:*

- 11 or lower: 4 damage; A [weak] slowed (EoT)
- 12–16: 5 damage; A [average] slowed (EoT)
- 17+: 6 damage; A [strong] restrained (EoT)

### SHINING ARMOR

The Shining Armor kit provides the most protection a kit can afford, providing you with the sword, shield, and armor
necessary to play the prototypical knight.

#### EQUIPMENT

You wear heavy armor and wield a shield and a medium weapon.

#### KIT BONUSES

- Stamina Bonus: +12
- Stability Bonus: +1
- Melee Damage Bonus: +2/+2/+2

#### SIGNATURE ABILITY

**PROTECTIVE ATTACK**

The strength of your assault makes it impossible for your foe to ignore you.

- **Keywords:** Attack, Melee, Weapon  
- **Type:** Action  
- **Distance:** Melee 1  
- **Target:** 1 creature

*Power Roll + Might or Agility:*

- 11 or lower: 4 damage
- 12–16: 7 damage
- 17+: 9 damage

*Effect:* The target is taunted (EoT).

### SNIPER

The Sniper kit gives you the tools and techniques to take down enemies from afar. This kit can help you become the
archer who lurks behind trees or down tunnels, picking off enemies with a bow or crossbow as they approach.

#### EQUIPMENT

You wear no armor and wield a bow.

#### KIT BONUSES

- Speed Bonus: +1
- Ranged Damage Bonus: +0/+0/+3
- Ranged Distance Bonus: +10
- Disengage Bonus: +1

#### SIGNATURE ABILITY

**PATIENT SHOT**

Breathe … aim … wait… then strike! 

- **Keywords:** Attack, Ranged, Weapon  
- **Type:** Action  
- **Distance:** Ranged 15  
- **Target:** 1 creature

*Power Roll + Might or Agility:*

- 11 or lower: 3 damage
- 12–16: 5 damage
- 17+: 11 damage

*Effect:* If you don’t take a move action this turn, you gain (SURGE) on this attack.

### SPELLSWORD

The Spellsword kit combines melee attacks and a little bit of magic for warriors who don’t want to have to choose
between the incantation and the blade.

#### EQUIPMENT

You wear light armor and wield a shield and a medium weapon.

#### KIT BONUSES

- Stamina Bonus: +6
- Speed Bonus: +1
- Stability Bonus: +1
- Melee Damage Bonus: +2/+2/+2

#### SIGNATURE ABILITY

**LEAPING LIGHTNING**

Lightning jumps from your weapon as you strike to harm a nearby foe. 

- **Keywords:** Attack, Magic, Melee, Weapon  
- **Type:** Action  
- **Distance:** Melee 1  
- **Target:** 1 creature or object

*Power Roll + Might, Reason, Intuition, or Presence:*

- 11 or lower: 4 lightning damage
- 12–16: 7 lightning damage
- 17+: 9 lightning damage

*Effect:* A creature or object within 2 squares of your target takes (SURGE) lightning damage.

### STICK AND ROBE

Armed with a simple reach weapon, often a quarterstaff, heroes using the Stick and Robe kit are highly mobile thanks to
their light armor. This allows them to make maximum use of their weapon’s length.

#### EQUIPMENT

You wear light armor and wield a polearm.

#### KIT BONUSES

- Stamina Bonus: +3
- Speed Bonus: +2
- Melee Damage Bonus: +1/+1/+1
- Melee Distance Bonus: +1
- Disengage Bonus: +1

#### SIGNATURE ABILITY

**WHERE I WANT YOU**

When your stick speaks, your enemy moves. 

- **Keywords:** Attack, Melee, Weapon  
- **Type:** Action  
- **Distance:** Melee 2  
- **Target:** 1 creature

*Power Roll + Might or Agility:*

- 11 or lower: 4 damage
- 12–16: 6 damage; slide 1
- 17+: 8 damage; slide 3

### SWASHBUCKLER

If you want to be mobile and deal a lot of damage with melee attacks, then you should reach for the Swashbuckler kit.
This is a great kit for heroes who want to be master duelists.

#### EQUIPMENT

You wear light armor and wield a medium weapon.

#### KIT BONUSES

- Stamina Bonus: +3
- Speed Bonus: +3
- Melee Damage Bonus: +2/+2/+2
- Disengage Bonus: +1

#### SIGNATURE ABILITY

**FANCY FOOTWORK**

All combat is a dance—and you’ll be the one leading. 

- **Keywords:** Attack, Melee, Weapon  
- **Type:** Action  
- **Distance:** Melee 1  
- **Target:** 1 creature

*Power Roll + Might or Agility:*

- 11 or lower: 4 damage
- 12–16: 6 damage; push 1
- 17+: 8 damage; push 2

*Effect:* You can shift into any square your target leaves after you force move them with this ability.

### SWORD AND BOARD

The Sword and Board kit doesn't just give you a shield—it makes the shield part of your offensive arsenal. With a medium
weapon in one hand and a block of steel or solid oak in the other, you can protect yourself and control the battlefield.

#### EQUIPMENT

You wear medium armor and wield a shield and a medium weapon.

#### KIT BONUSES

- Stamina Bonus: +9
- Melee Damage Bonus: +2/+2/+2
- Stability Bonus: +1
- Disengage Bonus: +1

#### SIGNATURE ABILITY

**SHIELD BASH**

In your hands, a shield isn’t just for protection. 

- **Keywords:** Attack, Melee, Weapon  
- **Type:** Action  
- **Distance:** Melee 1  
- **Target:** 1 creature

*Power Roll + Might or Agility:*

- 11 or lower: 4 damage; push 1
- 12–16: 5 damage; push 2
- 17+: 7 damage; push 3; M [strong] prone

### WARRIOR PRIEST

The Warrior Priest kit imbues the power of the gods into your weapon, making it a smiting instrument. You wade into the
fray without fear, thanks to the power of the divine… and the heavy armor you’re wearing.

#### EQUIPMENT

You wear heavy armor and wield a light weapon.

#### KIT BONUSES

- Stamina Bonus: +9
- Speed Bonus: +1
- Stability Bonus: +1
- Melee Damage Bonus: +1/+1/+1

#### SIGNATURE ABILITY

**WEAKENING BRAND**

The impact of your weapon brands your target for destruction. 

- **Keywords:** Attack, Magic, Melee, Weapon  
- **Type:** Action  
- **Distance:** Melee 1  
- **Target:** 1 creature or object

*Power Roll + Might, Reason, Intuition, or Presence:*

- 11 or lower: 3 holy damage
- 12–16: 5 holy damage
- 17+: 8 holy damage

*Effect:* Attacks against the target deal (SURGE) (EoT).

### WHIRLWIND

The Whirlwind kit makes effective use of whips, granting you mobility, damage, and reach. If you want to be a mobile
warrior who uses a chain or whip, then this is the kit for you.

#### EQUIPMENT

You wear no armor and wield a whip.

#### KIT BONUSES

- Speed Bonus: +3
- Melee Damage Bonus: +1/+1/+1
- Melee Distance Bonus: +1
- Disengage Bonus: +1

#### SIGNATURE ABILITY

**EXTENSION OF MY ARM**

When you draw your whip back after an attack, your enemy comes ever closer. 

- **Keywords:** Attack, Melee, Weapon  
- **Type:** Action  
- **Distance:** Melee 3  
- **Target:** 1 creature

*Power Roll + Might or Agility:*

- 11 or lower: 3 damage; pull 1
- 12–16: 6 damage; pull 2
- 17+: 8 damage; pull 3

### MARTIAL KITS

| Kit              | Armor          | Weapon             | Stamina | Speed | Stability | Melee Damage | Ranged Damage | Ranged Distance | Melee Distance | Disengage |
|------------------|----------------|--------------------|---------|-------|-----------|--------------|---------------|-----------------|----------------|-----------|
| Arcane Archer    | None           | Bow                | —       | +1    | —         | +2/+2/+2     | +10           | —               | +1             |           |
| Battlemind       | Light          | Medium             | +3      | +2    | +1        | +2/+2/+2     | —             | —               | —              | —         |
| Cloak and Dagger | Light          | Light              | +3      | +2    | —         | +1/+1/+1     | +1/+1/+1      | +5              | —              | +1        |
| Dual Wielder     | Medium         | Medium, Light      | +6      | +2    | —         | +2/+2/+2     | —             | —               | —              | +1        |
| Guisarmier       | Medium         | Polearm            | +6      | —     | +1        | +2/+2/+2     | —             | —               | +1             | —         |
| Martial Artist   | None           | Unarmed strike     | +3      | +3    | —         | +2/+2/+2     | —             | —               | —              | +1        |
| Mountain         | Heavy          | Heavy              | +9      | —     | +2        | +0/+0/+3     | —             | —               | —              | —         |
| Panther          | None           | Heavy              | +6      | +1    | +1        | +0/+0/+3     | —             | —               | —              | —         |
| Pugilist         | None           | Unarmed strike     | +6      | +2    | +1        | +1/+1/+1     | —             | —               | —              | —         |
| Raider           | Light, shield  | Light              | +6      | +1    | —         | +1/+1/+1     | +1/+1/+1      | +5              | —              | +1        |
| Ranger           | Medium         | Medium, bow        | +6      | +1    | —         | +1/+1/+1     | +1/+1/+1      | +5              | —              | +1        |
| Rapid-Fire       | Light          | Bow                | +3      | +1    | —         | —            | +2/+2/+2      | +7              | —              | +1        |
| Retiarius        | Light          | Polearm, ensnaring | +3      | +1    | —         | +2/+2/+2     | —             | —               | +1             | +1        |
| Shining Armor    | Heavy, shield  | Medium             | +12     | —     | +1        | +2/+2/+2     | —             | —               | —              | —         |
| Sniper           | None           | Bow                | —       | +1    | —         | +0/+0/+3     | +10           | —               | +1             |           |
| Spellsword       | Light, shield  | Medium             | +6      | +1    | +1        | +2/+2/+2     | —             | —               | —              | —         |
| Stick and Robe   | Light          | Polearm            | +3      | +2    | —         | +1/+1/+1     | —             | —               | +1             | +1        |
| Sword and Board  | Medium, shield | Medium             | +9      | —     | +1        | +2/+2/+2     | —             | —               | —              | +1        |
| Swashbuckler     | Light          | Medium             | +3      | +3    | —         | +2/+2/+2     | —             | —               | —              | +1        |
| Warrior Priest   | Heavy          | Light              | +9      | +1    | +1        | +1/+1/+1     | —             | —               | —              | —         |
| Whirlwind        | None           | Whip               | —       | +3    | —         | +1/+1/+1     | —             | —               | +1             | +1        |


















# COMPLICATIONS

Beyond your abilities and features, your hero might have something else that makes them … unusual. Perhaps you have an earth elemental living in your body. Or you might wield a magic sword that devastates enemies but feeds on your own vitality.

A complication is an optional feature you can take to enrich your hero’s backstory, with any complication providing you both a positive benefit and a negative drawback. Because complications are optional, check with your Director before taking one.

While you may get to determine your hero’s complication, it’s your Director’s right to determine how your complication affects the story, and you should be okay with that. Maybe you get a chance to remove your complication’s drawback or it plays a big part of the campaign’s narrative, or it may be you always have the complication’s drawback looming over you, forcing you into hard decisions! Either option leads to great narratives, so embrace the control you give to the Director when you take a complication. The story will be richer for it!

## BENEFIT AND DRAWBACK

Your complication gives your hero both a benefit and a drawback. Some of these benefits and drawbacks are mechanical, while others are narrative. The benefit and drawback of a complication makes your connection to the game deeper and more interesting, and provides hooks to let the Director better draw your hero into the campaign’s story.

Not all complication benefits and drawbacks are created equal, but each benefit is balanced by its drawback. If you have a powerful positive side to your complication, be prepared to have an equally influential bit of negative backstory as well.

## MODIFYING THE STORY

You can modify the narrative of a complication to better fit with your vision of your character’s backstory—or change it entirely. For instance, if you choose *Devil Deal* as a complication, you can have your hero instead make that deal with an archfey or an undead general!

Many of the details of each complication are purposefully left vague, so that you can connect it to the rest of your backstory. If your complication took place during “an attack” or “an accident,” you decide the specific details of who or what attacked you, or what type of accident befell you.

## DETERMINE COMPLICATION

You can choose your character’s complication, or you can roll on the Complications table.

**(Playtest note: More complications are coming.)**

### CULT VICTIM

Cultists captured you while raiding your home, then began an unholy ritual to turn your body into an undead spirit. The ritual failed, but your body became infused with corrupted magic, turning you partially incorporeal.

**Benefit:** Once per turn, you can move through a solid mundane object no more than 1 square thick. If you end your turn inside the object, you take 5 damage and are shunted out into the space where you entered the object.

**Drawback:** Your body is more susceptible to negative energy. You have corruption weakness 5.

### DEVIL DEAL

Your ancestors made a deal with an archdevil that has tied you to that fiend’s service. When you first learned of this deal, you were taken to the Seven Cities of Hell, where some of the timescape’s best minds taught you the ways of battle or magic. The archdevil allows you to use these gifts as you will … until they require a favor from you.

**Benefit:** Whenever you are present for a battle in which all the creatures on one side are not surprised, your side goes first on a result of 4 or greater on the d10 roll (see Determine Who Goes First in Combat Round).

**Drawback:** The archdevil occasionally asks you to defeat enemies on their behalf. If you refuse, your fiendish patron sends devils after you and those you care about.

### ELEMENTAL INSIDE

When an evil mage threatened someone you loved, you blocked your foe’s summoning of an elemental creature by absorbing their magic with your body. You are now infused with the power of that elemental—and they’re not happy about it.

**Benefit:** Your Stamina increases by 6 at 1st level, then increases by an additional 1 each time you gain a new level.

**Drawback:** When you are dying, your possessing elemental takes control of your body. The elemental yearns for destruction, causing you to attack the closest creature they notice without regard for your desires or your body’s safety. The Director or you can control the hero, but whoever does must do their best to kill any creature they notice until you are no longer dying.

### FIRE AND CHAOS

A great monster who breathed fire burned your home to the ground. While everything around you was consumed, you somehow stood strong amid the inferno, your body adapting to ignore the effects of the flames.

**Benefit:** You have fire immunity 5.

**Drawback:** You have cold weakness 5.

### PRIMORDIAL SICKNESS

You once contracted a terrible illness for which no one could find a cure. You sought out a primordial swamp said to be either incredibly poisonous or miraculously salubrious. It turned out to be both, keeping your illness at bay while corrupting your body with its unnatural energy.

**Benefit:** You have poison immunity 5 and corruption immunity 5.

**Drawback:** The number of Recoveries you have is reduced by 1.

### PUNISHMENT CURSE

Through ignorance, fear, spite, or selfishness, you refused to help someone in need. To teach you a lesson, a deity offered you what seemed to be a blessing—extra power to help you heal yourself in times of need, but harsh consequences should your need become excessive. You took the deal, and now benefit from the blessing but also suffer from a curse.

**Benefit:** You have 1 additional Recovery.

**Drawback:** When you are out of Recoveries, you are dying, no matter what your current Stamina is.

### SHIPWRECKED

You are the sole survivor of a shipwreck that left you stranded on a remote and inhospitable island for years. Your struggle to survive there granted you insight into the natural world but distanced you from who you once were.

**Benefit:** You gain two skills from the exploration skill group.

**Drawback:** You have forgotten one language you know.

### VIVID DREAMS

You broke a magic amulet that immersed your mind in weird magic. This magic has given you the power of premonition, but you struggle to control this new gift. Whenever you take a respite, make a Reason power roll to determine whether you gain this complication’s benefit or drawback.

**Benefit:** On a 12 to 16, you experience a vision of an event currently happening in your world. The vision lasts for just a few seconds, but the information you glean is helpful to you. On a 17 or higher, you receive a full minute or more of the scene.

**Drawback:** On an 11 or lower, you receive a painful vision that is fractal and inscrutable. When the respite ends, you immediately lose 1 Recovery.

### WARD

Your childhood sweetheart was royalty, and the two of you stayed close throughout the years. When your former sweetheart died, you swore an oath to dedicate your life to become a tutor for their child, advising them in the ways of being a benevolent monarch.

**Benefit:** You know how to talk to monarchs, aristocrats, and other wealthy leaders. When you engage with any such NPC during a negotiation, their patience increases by 1 (to a maximum of 5).

**Drawback:** Your royal ward regularly calls upon you for advice and takes that advice to heart—for better or for worse.

### WAR OF THE GUILDS

Being in the wrong place at the wrong time saw you caught in the middle of a conflict between two warring thieves' guilds. Whether by choice or by accident, you wound up helping one faction at the expense of the other.

**Benefit:** Having gained the favor of the faction who you helped, you can call on its members three times for favors. If a favor is reasonable and within the faction’s power to grant, they’ll do it, no questions asked.

**Drawback:** The faction you wronged hates you, and its members would love to see you pay for your transgression.

## COMPLICATIONS TABLE

| d10 | Complication        |
|-----|---------------------|
|  1  | Cult Victim         |
|  2  | Devil Deal          |
|  3  | Elemental Inside    |
|  4  | Fire and Chaos      |
|  5  | Primordial Sickness |
|  6  | Punishment Curse    |
|  7  | Shipwrecked         |
|  8  | Vivid Dreams        |
|  9  | Ward                |
| 10  | War of the Guilds   |

# PERKS

Heroes don’t just fight monsters. They engage in exploration, investigation, negotiation, and more. Perks are features you can use to customize your heroes and give them heroic moments outside of combat. Perks, along with skills and many of your hero’s class features, make your character more than a monster fighter. While these features are designed to be used outside of combat, many are versatile enough that they can also be used in combat. You get one perk from your career and can choose others from your class as your level increases.

## PERK TYPES

There are six types of perks:

- **Crafting perks** let you better craft materials and become an expert in the things you create.
- **Exploration perks** let you better traverse and explore environments.
- **Interpersonal perks** let you better interact with other creatures.
- **Intrigue perks** let you better investigate mysteries and find the truth while keeping your secrets hidden.
- **Supernatural perks** let you use magic and psionics to influence the world around you.

Whenever a feature allows you to gain a perk, it tells you which type of perk to choose.

## CRAFTING PERKS

This section presents the crafting perks in alphabetical order.

### AREA OF EXPERTISE

Choose one skill from the crafting skill group that you have. When you roll an 11 or lower on an easy or medium test with this skill, you instead take the 12-16 result. Additionally, if you spend 1 minute inspecting an object related to this skill, you can approximate its value and learn of any flaws in its construction.

### BURNING THE MIDNIGHT OIL

When you undertake a crafting project, reduce its project goal by 25%. Additionally, project rolls you make for crafting projects are considered breakthroughs if the total roll meets or exceeds 20, in addition to a natural 20 also counting as a breakthrough.

### EXPERT ARTISAN

Whenever you make a test as part of a research or crafting project that uses a skill you have from the crafting skill group, you can roll the test twice and use either roll.

### HANDY

When you make a test to craft something and don’t have a skill that applies, you gain a +1 bonus to the roll.

### HOMESTEADER

You gain an artisan follower, in addition to followers you acquire through renown or other means.

### IMPROVISATION CREATION

Even without tools, you can quickly jury-rig a mundane item or repair a mundane piece of equipment related to a skill you have from the crafting skill group without needing to make a test. That item works for 1 hour or 1 use (whichever comes first) then breaks beyond repair. For example, if you have the carpentry skill, you can repair a rickety wooden bridge long enough for a group of creatures to cross it or build a simple shovel made of wood that works for 1 hour.

### INSPIRED ARTISAN

When you make a project roll using a skill from the crafting skill group that you have, you can spend a hero token to make another project roll for the same project as part of the same respite activity. You can’t use this perk more than once per respite.

### TRAVELLING ARTISAN

On a day when you don’t take a respite, you can spend an hour working on a crafting project that uses a crafting skill you have. If you do so, you gain 1d10 points toward that project.

## EXPLORATION PERKS

This section presents the exploration perks in alphabetical order.

### BRAWNY

When you fail a Might test, you can roll a d6. You lose Stamina equal to the roll and improve the result of your test by one tier. You can use this perk only once per test.

### CAMOUFLAGE HUNTER

While in the wilderness, once you are hidden from a creature, you don’t need cover or concealment from them to stay hidden.

### FIELD MEDICINE

Outside of combat, you can aid an adjacent ally spending a Recovery to regain Stamina. They gain additional Stamina equal to twice your current Victories.

### I'LL TOSS YOU!

As a maneuver, you can grab a willing, adjacent ally or object of your size or smaller and hurl them a number of squares equal to twice your Might score in any direction. If they fall as a result of this movement, their fall distance is reduced by a number equal to twice your Might score. You can’t use this perk again until you gain at least 1 Victory.

### I’VE GOT YOU!

If a willing ally lands on you when they fall, you can use your triggered action to catch them. Neither of you takes damage from the fall.

### MONSTER WHISPERER

You can use the Handle Animals skill to interact with non-sapient monsters who are not animals.

### PUT YOUR BACK INTO IT!

Once per montage test, you can turn an ally’s tier 1 test result into a tier 2 result. Additionally, if you make a test to assist a test and get a tier 1 result, you don’t add a bane to the assisted test.

### SHIVERS

When in a natural environment, you have an edge on all tests made with the Alertness skill, and you cannot be surprised. Additionally, you’re attuned to the instincts of wildlife and know if a natural disaster is imminent within the next 72 hours. You don’t know exactly what it will entail.

### SURVIVALIST

While in the wilderness, you can spend 1 hour searching a 1-mile-radius area of land and find a safe location suitable for a respite (if one exists).

### TEAM BACKBONE

When you take your first turn during a montage test, you can both make a test and assist another hero’s test.

### TEAM LEADER

At the start of a group test or montage test, you can spend a hero token. If you do, all participants make tests as if they also had your exploration skills.

### WOOD WISE

When you make a test with an exploration skill and at least one of the d10s rolled is a 1, you can reroll one d10. You can only use this perk once per test.

## INTERPERSONAL PERKS

This section presents the interpersonal perks in alphabetical order.

### CUNNING PLAN

When you have at least 10 minutes to plan before going into a negotiation, you can declare a goal and offer up at least one piece of information you have about that NPC that will enable you to achieve that goal. If this intel is accurate and meaningful, you gain 1 hero token which can be used to achieve that goal. If you have additional information, or your information is particularly extensive, you can gain a second hero token at the Director’s discretion.

### DAZZLER

When a creature watches you perform a song, dance, or role (as an actor, not in disguise) for at least 1 minute, you gain an edge on tests made to influence that creature for 1 hour after the performance ends.

### ENGROSSING MONOLOGUE

When you are not in combat, you can shout to get the attention of all creatures within 10 squares of you. Each creature who is not hostile toward you listens to what you have to say for at least the next minute, or until they sense danger or any form of imminent harm. While creatures are listening to you, your allies gain an edge on tests made to avoid being noticed by those creatures.

### EXAGGERATOR

If you fail a test with the Lie skill, you don’t suffer any consequences associated with the failure. You can’t benefit from this perk again until you gain at least 1 Victory. During a negotiation, you can be caught in one lie without negative consequences. You can’t benefit from this perk again until you gain at least 1 Victory.

### FAST NEGOTIATOR

At the start of a negotiation, you can learn one negotiation motivation or pitfall (your choice) of an NPC in the negotiation. If the creature has the Lie skill, you learn only that they have the Lie skill.

### HARMONIZER

For you, music is a universal language.
- You can make a Presence test with the music skill to influence creatures even if you don’t share a language.
- Once during a negotiation when an ally makes an argument, you can play music to give them an edge on their test.

### LIE DETECTOR

After another creature communicates with you, you can spend a hero token to determine whether what that creature communicated had any lies. If so, you know what the lies are, but not what the truth is.

### OPEN BOOK

When you have a chance to speak one-on-one with someone, you can ask them one question about themself. If they choose to answer honestly, they can immediately ask you a question about yourself in turn, which you must answer honestly. If they choose not to answer honestly, they simply deflect or redirect the question, no further complications result from the prying.

### PARDON MY FRIEND

When an ally within 5 squares of you fails a Presence test, you can step in and make a Presence test with a bane. Your new roll replaces their roll. This feature can only be used once per test, regardless of how many heroes have it.

### PERSISTENT

In a negotiation, when a creature’s patience reaches 0, you can make one last argument before the negotiation is over. Only one hero can use this perk per negotiation.

### POWER PLAYER

When you make a test that uses the Brag, Flirt, or Intimidate skills, you can use Might in place of another characteristic used as part of the test.

### SO, TELL ME …

When you succeed on a Presence test to influence another creature, you can ask one creature you influenced a follow-up question after the test resolves, which they must answer honestly. At the Director’s discretion, the creature doesn’t have to answer the question completely or at all if the response would put them or a loved one in danger.

### SPOT THE TELL

When you make a test to read a person and get a tier 3 result, you notice several tells that give away their true feelings. Any test you make to read that person in the future, you gain an edge on the test.

## INTRIGUE PERKS

This section presents the intrigue perks in alphabetical order.

### CRIMINAL CONTACTS

You have access to a network of criminal contacts. As a respite activity during a respite in a settlement, you can ask a question of your contacts. Make a Presence test. On a tier 2 result, you gain knowledge that would be common among criminals (e.g., the secret entrances into a building, the location of a local, hidden criminal, the name of a local thieves’ guild leader). On a tier 3 result, you can also gain knowledge that would be uncommon among criminals, if such information exists (e.g., the location of a local treasure stock, the location of a murder weapon used in a noble’s assassination, the name of an NPC secretly bankrolling a local assassin’s guild).

### FORGETTABLE FACE

If you interact with a creature for less than 10 minutes and they haven’t met you before in the past, you can cause them to forget your face when you part. If asked to describe you, they give only a vague, blank, and unhelpful description. Additionally, if you spend at least 1 hour assembling a disguise, creatures who meet you in that disguise do not recognize your true face later from when you were in disguise.

### LUCKY DOG

When you fail a test using any skill from the intrigue skill group, you can roll a d6. You lose Stamina equal to the roll and improve the result of your test by one tier. You can use this perk only once per test.

### MASTER OF DISGUISE

You can don or remove a disguise as part of any Hide test you make or while taking the Hide maneuver.

### SLIPPED LEAD

You have an edge on checks made to escape bonds. Given at least 1 minute uninterrupted, you can escape any mundane bonds without making a test. Additionally, it’s not immediately obvious when you’ve escaped bonds until you use an ability that harms other creatures, cast them off, or do something else obvious that makes it clear you are unbound.

### STALL TRAP

When a mundane trap activates within 3 squares of you, you can move up to 3 squares toward it as a triggered action. If you’re adjacent to any of the trap’s mechanisms after this movement, you jam the trap, preventing it from activating. So long as you stay adjacent to the mechanism, the trap can’t go off. If an attempt to disarm the trap you are stalling fails, it goes off.

## LORE PERKS

This section presents the lore perks in alphabetical order.

### BUT I KNOW WHO DOES

When you fail a test to recall lore with a skill from the lore skill group that you have, you know the closest place where the information you seek with that test can be found. It could be a sage, in a library, or somewhere deep in a dungeon. The Director determines the source’s location.

### EIDETIC MEMORY

Your mind is an encyclopedia, though not always an easy one to organize. After finishing a respite, choose one skill from the lore skill group you don’t have. You gain that skill until you finish a respite. Additionally, if you spend at least 1 minute reading a page of text, you can memorize its contents. You can memorize entire books this way.

### EXPERT SAGE

Whenever you make a test as part of a research or crafting project that uses a skill you have from the lore skill group, you can roll the test twice and use either roll.

### I’VE READ ABOUT THIS PLACE

When you enter a settlement you’ve never been to before, you can ask the Director one of the following questions:

- Who’s the most influential public figure in this settlement?
- Who in this town would be friendly to us right now?
- What does this settlement need most from outsiders?

If the Director does not have an answer to the question you ask, you can instead ask a different question.

### LINGUIST

If you spend at least 7 days in a place where you regularly hear a language you don’t know spoken, you can pick up enough of that language to hold a conversation, though you still can’t read it. After doing so, you can learn it twice as fast as normal. Additionally, you learn two extra languages you’ve heard before when you gain this perk.

### POLYMATH

When you make a test to recall lore and don’t have a skill that applies to the test, you gain a +1 bonus to the test.

### SPECIALIST

You are a leading expert on a particular subject. Choose one skill you have from the lore skill group. You always have a double edge on tests made to recall lore that use this skill. Additionally, you have at least one major contribution to this field, such as a thesis, field guide, gazetteer, or even an ongoing newsletter you maintain. This contribution grants you notoriety in your field. You treat your Renown as 1 higher when negotiating with people who know of your work, or 2 higher if they have the skill that you chose for this perk.

## SUPERNATURAL PERKS

This section presents the supernatural perks in alphabetical order.

### ARCANE TRICK

You gain the following ability.

#### ARCANE TRICK

- **Keywords:** Magic  
- **Type:** Action  
- **Distance:** Self  
- **Target:** Self  

You cast an entertaining spell that creates a minor but impressive magical effect.  
Choose one of the following effects:
- You teleport an unattended size 1T or 1S object within 1 square of you to an unoccupied space within 1 square of you.
- Until the start of your next turn, a part of your body shoots a shower of harmless noisy sparks that give off light within 1 square of you.
- You ignite or snuff out (your choice) every mundane light source within 1 square of you.
- You make up to 1 pound of edible food you can touch taste delicious or disgusting.
- Until the start of your next turn, you make your body exude a particular odor you’ve smelled before. This smell can be sensed by creatures within 5 squares of you, but can’t impose any condition or other drawback on creatures.
- You place a small magical inscription on the surface of a mundane object you can touch, or remove an inscription that was made by you or by another creature using Arcane Trick.
- You cover a size 1T object that you touch with an illusion that makes it look like another object. A creature who handles the object can see through the illusion. The illusion ends when you stop touching the object.

### CREATURE SENSE

As a maneuver, you can magically learn the keywords a creature has in its stat block (e.g., "Demon," "Humanoid," or "Undead"). If the creature has the Lie skill, you learn only that they have the Lie skill.

### FAMILIAR

A magic spirit, which has taken the form of a specific small animal or animate object, has chosen to be your familiar—or to adopt you as its familiar. The familiar can’t perform activities that require hands, and it can’t harm other creatures or objects. It can provide flanking benefits only to you. The familiar uses the familiar stat block.

If the familiar is destroyed, you can restore them as a respite activity or by spending a Recovery as an action to bring them back into existence into an unoccupied space adjacent to you.

#### FAMILIAR STAT BLOCK

- **Stamina:** 2 × your level  
- **Speed:** 5  
- **Size:** 1T  
- **Stability:** 0  
- **Might:** −3  
- **Agility:** +2  
- **Reason:** +0  
- **Intuition:** 0  
- **Presence:** +1  

**Telepathic:** You and the spirit can communicate telepathically with each other and share senses while you are within 10 squares of each other.

### INVISIBLE FORCE

You gain the following ability.

#### INVISIBLE FORCE

- **Keywords:** Psionic  
- **Type:** Maneuver  
- **Distance:** Ranged 10  
- **Target:** 1 size 1T unattended object  

You manipulate a tiny object with your mind. You can move the object up to a number of squares equal to your Reason, Intuition, or Presence score (your choice). You can use this ability to turn doorknobs, pull levers, and manipulate other smaller, movable pieces of a larger object as long as the piece you're manipulating is unattended and size 1T (though you can’t use this ability to break smaller pieces off of a larger object).

### MINOR BLESSING

You gain a 1st-level Domain Feature from the conduit class of your choice.

### PSYCHIC WHISPER

You gain the following ability.

#### PSYCHIC WHISPER

- **Keywords:** Psionic  
- **Type:** Maneuver  
- **Distance:** Ranged 10  
- **Target:** 1 ally who understands at least one language  

You send a one-way telepathic message to a friend.  

**Effect:** You send a telepathic message to the target that takes 10 seconds or less to speak.

### MYSTIC DABBLER

You gain a 1st-level Specialization Feature from the elementalist class of your choice.

### THINGSPEAKER

When you hold an object in your hand, you can ask the Director if it bears emotional importance. Objects with emotional resonance could include treasured gifts, murder weapons, or personal keepsakes. If the answer is yes, the Director tells you the most dominant emotion associated with the object, and you can spend 1 uninterrupted minute focusing on the object, at the end of which you receive a vision which answers one of the following questions:
- What was the name of the person whose emotions are imprinted on this object?
- Why does this emotion linger on the object?
- How long has it been since this was held by the person whose emotions linger on it?

After asking one question, you can choose to delve deeper. You ask one additional question from the list, after which you are overcome with emotions that do not belong to you. You take a bane on Presence and Intuition tests until you finish a respite. While you suffer this bane, you can’t use this feature.

### RITUALIST

You can spend 1 minute performing a magic ritual of blessing. At the end of the ritual, touch one willing creature, including yourself. The creature gains a double edge on the next test they make within the next minute. A creature can’t use this benefit on an activity that takes longer than a minute.

# LANGUAGES

When you create your hero, you’ll be able to select the languages they know. The following section details the languages of Orden, the baseline world of the game, but the Director can use these languages in their own campaign world or can swap this list with their own list of languages.

If your hero knows a language, they can speak, read, write, and understand it.

**(Playtest note: The full list of languages for the game isn’t included here. More is coming.)**

## CAELIAN EMPIRE

The Caelian Empire dominated five of the seven regions of Orden three thousand years ago. During the height of this most recent human empire, all humans (including folks from Vanigar in the far north, but not folks from the islands of Ix) learned to speak the Caelian tongue. For many, especially the noble classes and the well-to-do, Caelian effectively replaced their native language.

Some thirteen hundred years after the fall of the Caelian Empire, the languages of the different regions of the empire are enjoying a resurgence. Still, the Caelian tongue is spoken by most humans in most regions to one extent or another.

Most people in Orden can speak and understand some Caelian, simply because the empire was so powerful and so widespread. Anyone trading with the empire or living near its borders or under its influence eventually learned to speak Caelian, including dwarves, elves, orcs, lizardfolk, and goblins. If you speak more than one language in Orden, your second language is almost certainly Caelian. As a result, that language of empire is now colloquially referred to as “the common tongue”—the language that most folk of Orden have in common.

## EXTANT SPOKEN LANGUAGES

Folks have been speaking and writing in Orden for at least thirty thousand years, but most of those languages are now dead. Many have been forgotten. Others were spoken by peoples who never developed writing, preventing those languages from being preserved. And many languages that were preserved in writing left no related descendants, so that no one knows what sounds that writing represented.

The languages on the Vasloria Languages by Ancestry table are the most common languages in that region, actively spoken by significant populations of people. Most languages are associated with a specific ancestry and its culture, but being a member of an ancestry doesn’t automatically make you part of the associated culture the language is tied to. For example, if your orc hero was raised in a culture of elves, you probably speak one of the elven languages, and might never have learned Kalliak.

Most languages have colloquial or casual names. For instance, many people in Orden call Kalliak “Orcish” and Hyrallic “Elvish,” but any sage knows there are lots of orcish and elven languages, just as there are multiple human languages.

### VASLORIA LANGUAGES BY ANCESTRY

| Ancestry       | Language    | Notes                                         |
|----------------|-------------|----------------------------------------------|
| Angulots       | Filliaric   | Offshoot of Cyllinric                        |
| Demons         | Proto-Ctholl|                                              |
| Devils         | Anjal       | Language of contract law                     |
| Dwarves        | Zaliac      | Language of engineering                      |
| Dragons        | Xakalliac   |                                              |
| Dragons, elder | The First Language | Language of magic                    |
| Elves, wode    | Yllyric     | Language of druids                           |
| Elves, high    | Hyrallic    | Language of interspecies diplomacy, the common language of the elves |
| Fae creatures  | Khelt       | Offshoot of Kheltivari                       |
| Giants         | Kuric       |                                              |
| Gnolls         | Anjal       |                                              |
| Gnomes         | Variac      |                                              |
| Goblins        | Szetch      |                                              |
| Kobolds        | Kethaic     | Patois of Xakalliac and Caelian              |
| Lizardfolk     | Khamish     |                                              |
| Ogres          | Kuric       |                                              |
| Olothec        | Urollialic  |                                              |
| Orcs           | Kalliak     | Offshoot of Zaliac                           |
| Overminds      | Za’hariax   |                                              |
| Time raiders   | Voll        |                                              |
| Trolls         | Variac      | Common language of the World Below          |
| Voiceless talkers | Variac   |                                              |
| Mindspeech     |             | A symbolic language shared among native telepaths |
| Everyone       | Caelian     | Common tongue                                |

### VASLORIA HUMAN LANGUAGES

| Region  | Language  |
|---------|-----------|
| The Gol | Uvalic    |
| Higara  | Higaran   |
| Ix      | Oaxuatl   |
| Khemhara| Khemharic |
| Koursir | Khoursirian|
| Phaedros| Phaedran  |
| Rioja   | Riojan    |
| Vanigar | Vaniric   |
| Vasloria| Vaslorian |

### LANGUAGE USAGE

Hyrallic is the primary language of the high elves in Orden. Although young for an elven language, Hyrallic is older than almost all other modern cultural languages, save those of the dwarves. As a result, while anyone who lives near or trades with a human culture probably speaks at least a little Caelian, most nobles across all ancestries make sure their children or offspring speak Hyrallic.

Caelian is new from many cultures’ point of view, while Hyrallic as a language for diplomacy is considered cultured and traditional.

Yllyric is the cultural language of wode elves, and also the common language among those who defend and protect the natural forests of Orden.

Within any document concerning the workings of machines, masonry, or geology, you are likely to find a healthy supply of jargon using Zaliac, the most popular dwarven language. Even when such texts aren’t fully written in Zaliac, they use a lot of dwarven language when describing esoteric, complex ideas.

Just as Zaliac is used in engineering, contract law isn’t written purely in Anjal, the dominant language of the Seven Cities of Hell. But a lot of the legal jargon in any contract, as well as some of the language of trial courts, features many Anjal words. People are sticklers for detail in the Seven Cities, and this makes their language popular among lawyers.

In the same way that intelligent creatures in Orden who live near or trade with other cultures use Caelian as a common language, the denizens of the World Below, the Dark Under All, often speak Variac, the language of the voiceless talkers.

## DEAD LANGUAGES

For an adventuring hero with an ambition to create great works or unlock deep lore, it can be useful to be able to read ancient writing. Much deep lore is attested only in ancient tomes and scrolls written in languages that no modern culture uses.

Most of these ancient writings were written by people who expected other people to read it. The lore might have been kept secret by not sharing it with anyone outside the college or cult whose members originally wrote it, but the actual writing was not intended to be difficult to read or understand. It wasn’t written in code—just in a language that people stopped speaking long ago.

Sages can reconstruct many of these languages by learning which modern languages descended from them, then comparing them to related languages from the same time period that might have survived. Translating such ancient languages has been extremely useful for the purposes of crafting and research.

### DEAD LANGUAGES TABLE

| Language      | Related Languages           | Common Topics                             |
|---------------|-----------------------------|-------------------------------------------|
| Kheltivari    | Yllyric, Cyllinric          | Using a wode to travel through time       |
| Khamish       | Khoursirian                 | Beast magic                               |
| Old Sky Elf   | Hyrallic                    | Flying castles                            |
| Old Sun Elf   | Hyrallic, Yllyric           | Liannar, the Sunmetal                     |
| Hobgoblin     | Anjal                       | Zodiakol, the Bloodmetal                  |
| Old Star Elf  | Hyrallic, Yllyric           | Rovion, the Starmetal                     |
| Steel Dwarf   | Zaliac                      | Valiar, the Truemetal                     |
| Old Variac    | Variac                      | Kollar, the Sinmetal                      |

# TESTS

When you want your hero to rifle through a desk and locate a specific document, scale a castle wall, negotiate a treaty with a monarch, or undertake any other activity with a chance of failure, you’ll need to make a test to determine how successful you are on the task. A test is any power roll that has failure or consequences as an option.

## WHEN TO MAKE A TEST

The Director should ask a player to make a test only when the player’s hero attempts a task where the consequences of failure are interesting or dramatic, and where failure won’t grind the story to a halt. For example, if a hero wants to leap over a waist-high wall while casually walking through a peaceful city neighborhood, the worst case for failure is probably that the hero falls on their butt, takes no damage, and can stand up to either try again or walk around the wall. As such, no test is required. But if the hero were being chased by enemies, failing to leap over the wall means the pursuers can catch them, so the Director might decide to call for a test to determine what happens.

The advancement of a story shouldn’t be halted by failing a test. For instance, the heroes might need to know the color of a dwarf king’s crown to solve a puzzle, with that puzzle opening the only entrance to a tomb they must enter to stop a world-ending ritual. It could be that a successful Reason test allows the heroes to recall that lore, but the test shouldn’t be their only option to get the information. If the test fails, perhaps the heroes need to go to a flying library to do research, or they might be able to delve into a ruin to find the ancient monarch’s portrait. A failed test should always result in a story becoming more interesting, not in the action coming to an end.

### IT JUST WORKS!

When a hero attempts to solve a task that normally requires a test with clever, outside-the-box thinking, the Director can instead decide that no test is required and the attempt automatically works! For example, if a hero who wants to climb a wall first covers their hands and feet in giant strands of sticky spider webs, the Director might decide that they can climb up the wall without needing to make a test.

That said, such clever ideas often work for free the first time, but the Director could decide they require tests if they are used again.

## HOW TO MAKE A TEST

Each test has the following steps:

- The Director decides that a hero’s actions call for a test and asks the hero’s player to make a power roll using an appropriate characteristic (see Characteristics and Tests). The Director then selects a difficulty for the power roll, either secretly or publicly (see Test Difficulty).
- The player makes the power roll. If the character has a skill that applies to the test (see Skills), they can ask the Director if the skill applies. The player must justify the use of the skill to the Director. If the Director agrees the skill applies, the hero gains a +2 bonus (not an edge but a bonus) to the roll.
- The player reports the result, and the Director interprets the success or failure of the roll.

### CHARACTERISTICS AND TESTS

When you describe a task you want your hero to undertake and the Director determines that a test is necessary, they then determine which characteristic the test uses based on the nature of the task. For instance, if you’re scaling a wall, the Director could ask for a Might test to determine how far and how quickly you’re able to climb. If you’re attempting to plead your innocence in court for a murder you didn’t commit, the Director might ask for a Presence test if you’re attempting to win over the jury with your personality, or a Reason test if you’re laying out a logical argument to support your innocence.

Though the Director can decide to call for tests in any circumstances, a number of tasks that heroes routinely undertake are commonly set up as tests.

#### MIGHT TESTS

You make a Might test whenever a risky task calls for the use of physical strength. Might tests are most often used for breaking down doors and other structures, hurling heavy objects, pulling your body up a sheer wall, swimming against a mighty current, and other feats of physical power.

#### AGILITY TESTS

You make an Agility test whenever a risky task calls for the use of your physical coordination and nimbleness. Agility tests are most often used for tumbling, sneaking, picking locks, and engaging in sleight of hand.

#### REASON TESTS

You make a Reason test whenever you attempt a risky task that requires the use of your mental acumen and education, formal or otherwise. Reason tests are most often used to recall lore, deduce information based on clues, complete a puzzle, forge counterfeit items or documents, break a code, convince others of a logical argument, or make an estimation.

#### INTUITION TESTS

You make an Intuition test whenever you attempt a risky task that requires the use of your powers of observation and instinct. Intuition tests are most often used to notice hidden creatures or details, discern another person’s motivations or honesty, calm and reassure others, and train animals.

#### PRESENCE TESTS

You make a Presence test whenever you attempt a risky task that requires the use of your force of personality. Presence tests are most often used to gain trust, project confidence, and influence and lead other creatures.

#### INFLUENCING PLAYER CHARACTER ACTIONS WITH TESTS

Tests can’t be used by NPCs or PCs to influence the actions of PCs. Many players feel that their agency is taken away if they’re compelled to jump into a pile of gold filled with hidden scorpions because an NPC convinced them to do so with a Presence test. For most players, it’s not fun to be in control of a single hero and lose some of that control.

Instead, Directors should do their level best to have an NPC suggest that a character dive headlong into the gold like a billionaire duck, then let the player decide what their character does. Similarly, a Director might decide that one player character can’t make an Intuition test to discern another PC’s motivations or honesty.

That said, if everyone in your gaming group decides to lift one or more of these restrictions after talking about it, go for it! There’s no wrong way to play as long as everyone is having fun. The MCDM Safety Toolkit (available for download at [https://mcdm.gg/SafetyToolkit](https://mcdm.gg/SafetyToolkit)) discusses how to talk about potentially problematic topics such as limiting character agency at your table.

### TEST DIFFICULTY

The Director decides how difficult a task that requires a test is: easy, medium, or hard. If a task seems as though it’s easier than easy, then no test is necessary. The hero simply accomplishes the task. If the task seems harder than hard, then the Director is free to decide that it’s impossible to complete with a test.

On a test-by-test basis, the Director can share the difficulty of a task before the player makes the test, which makes interpreting the result faster at the table. The Director can also keep the test’s difficulty secret until after the player rolls the test, for dramatic effect.

The **Test Difficulty Outcomes** table shows all the possible results of the different difficulties of tests. If you’re a Director, you’ll want to keep this handy so you can see the different difficulties and their outcomes at a glance.

#### TEST DIFFICULTY OUTCOMES

| Result       | Easy Outcomes          | Medium Outcomes        | Hard Outcomes          |
|--------------|------------------------|------------------------|------------------------|
| Less than 11 | Success with consequence | Failure               | Failure with consequence |
| 12-16        | Success               | Success with consequence | Failure               |
| 17+          | Success with reward   | Success               | Success               |
| Natural 19-20| Success with reward   | Success with reward   | Success with reward   |

#### EASY TESTS

An easy test has some risk of failure, but most heroes will likely overcome it. The power roll you make for an easy test determines the outcome (see Test Outcomes):

- 11 or lower: You succeed on the task and incur a consequence.
- 12–16: You succeed on the task.
- 17+: You succeed on the task with a reward.

#### MEDIUM TESTS

A medium test has some risk of failure that most heroes will likely overcome—but with a cost. The power roll you make for a medium test determines the outcome:

- 11 or lower: You fail the task.
- 12–16: You succeed on the task and incur a consequence.
- 17+: You succeed on the task.

#### HARD TESTS

A hard test has a greater risk of failure, and most heroes are likely to suffer some hardship while trying to overcome the intended task. The power roll you make for a hard test determines the outcome:

- 11 or lower: You fail the task and incur a consequence.
- 12–16: You fail the task.
- 17+: You succeed on the task.

#### NATURAL 19 OR 20: SUCCESS WITH A REWARD

When you get a natural 19 or 20 on a test’s power roll, you succeed on the task with a reward, even if the test has a medium or hard difficulty.

### TEST OUTCOMES

Depending on a test’s difficulty and the result of the power roll made to accomplish a task, you can obtain one of the following outcomes.

#### FAILURE WITH A CONSEQUENCE

If you fail a hard test and incur a consequence, you don’t do what you set out to do—in addition to which, you suffer an impactful setback. The Director determines the exact nature of the consequence, which is typically related to the specific task. For instance:

- If a hero suffers a consequence while trying to climb a wall, they might make it halfway up the wall and then fall, taking damage and landing prone.
- A hero trying to sneak by cultists might be spotted by those foes, who immediately attack.
- If a consequence strikes when a hero attempts to bribe a prison guard, the guard might decide to arrest the hero or lead them into a trap.
- If a hero suffers a consequence on a Reason test made to recall lore about the king’s favorite meal, they might confuse it for a dish to which the monarch is deathly allergic.

Not all consequences need to be immediate or apparent. For example, a hero might fail with a consequence on a test made to cheat at a high-stakes game of cards with a noble. The failure means that the noble notices, but the Director decides that the noble doesn’t say anything. This consequence isn’t made apparent until later in the evening, when the noble has guards surround the hero and take the cheater down to the dungeon for stacking the deck.

Common consequences for failing a test include the following:

- Making an NPC so upset that they storm off, or betray, attack, or otherwise attempt to harm you.
- Drawing the attention of a group of foes.

Draw Steel © 2024 MCDM Productions, LLC

- Triggering a trap or hazard that captures or significantly harms you or an ally
- Breaking an important piece of equipment that is difficult to replace or repair
- Thinking you know something that you don’t
- Getting stuck in a situation that must be resolved with a negotiation or a montage test that you didn’t need to make before

In lieu of other consequences, the Director has the option to gain 2 additional Malice, a resource their creatures use in combat, at the start of the next combat encounter.

You can spend a hero token after making a test to turn a failure with consequences result into a success.

#### FAILURE

If you fail a test without incurring a consequence, you simply don’t do what you set out to do. If you’re attempting to climb a wall, you find no purchase. If you’re attempting to recall lore, you can’t remember the desired facts. If you’re attempting to bribe a guard, they don’t take the bait.

When you get this result, the Director can decide that there might still be a small penalty for failure, depending on the circumstances of the test. This penalty shouldn’t be as harsh as rolling a failure with a consequence, though. For instance, a hero who gets this result on an Agility test made to sneak by a group of cultists might draw the attention of one cultist with their failure. Now that cultist is coming to investigate, but they haven’t raised the alarm... yet.

When a hero rolls a failure without a consequence, the Director can offer to let them succeed with a consequence instead. For instance, when a hero rolls a 10 on a medium Might test to break down a locked door, that’s a failure. But the Director could offer the player the choice of either not breaking down the door, or breaking down the door and losing 1d6 Stamina as they get injured in the effort.

You can spend a hero token after making a test to turn a failure result into a success.

#### SUCCESS WITH A CONSEQUENCE

If you succeed on a test and incur a consequence, you do what you set out to do, but with an added cost. You might succeed in climbing up a wall, but the surface of the wall crumbles and becomes unstable as you do, making the climb more difficult for the ally ascending after you. When trying to sneak by a cultist, you successfully do so, but you leave footprints or other evidence of trespassing behind that someone will eventually find. If you attempt to bribe a guard to let you sneak into a prison, the guard lets you in—but then demands that you hand over a gemstone you need for an important crafting project before they let you out.

Just like failure with a consequence, the consequences accompanying success don’t need to be immediately apparent. In lieu of other consequences, the Director has the option to gain 2 additional Malice at the start of the next combat encounter.

When a hero rolls a success with a consequence, the Director might give them a chance to fail instead. For instance, when a hero rolls a 10 on an easy Agility test to pick a chest’s lock, that’s a success with a consequence. But the Director could offer the player the choice of either picking the lock and breaking their lockpicks (which can’t be replaced until the hero gets a chance to pick up some more in town), or not picking the lock but keeping their lockpicks intact.

You can spend a hero token after making a test to turn a success with consequences result into a success without consequences.

#### SUCCESS

If you succeed on a test without consequence or reward, you simply achieve whatever you set out to do. You climb that wall, sneak by those cultists, or bribe that guard just like you planned it. Smooth.

#### SUCCESS WITH A REWARD

If you succeed on a test with a reward, you accomplish whatever you set out to do. But you also gain a little something extra, in the form of momentum or luck that makes the immediate future easier for you or your friends. The Director determines your reward, which is most often related to the task at hand. For instance:

- If you succeed with a reward while climbing a wall, you might find a ladder at the top that you can lower so any allies climbing after you can do so without needing to make a test.
- A hero trying to sneak by cultists who succeeds with a reward might then be able to dose the cultists’ nearby water barrel with sleeping poison as they pass by unseen.
- Succeeding with a reward while bribing a prison guard could mean that the guard will unlock a door for you in addition to forgetting you were ever there.

As with consequences, the reward that comes with a success doesn’t need to be immediate or apparent. For example, a hero succeeds with a reward on an easy test made to cheat at a high-stakes game of cards with a noble. Not only does the hero win the game, but the Director decides that their reward comes from a servant watching the game who’s impressed with the character’s performance. After the game, the servant approaches the hero, offering a Flying Potion from the noble’s private stash in congratulations and admiration.

Some common rewards accompanying success on a test include the following:

- Automatically accomplishing a related follow-up task that would normally require a test
- Allowing an ally engaged in the same task to accomplish the task without needing to make the test too
- Obtaining a consumable supernatural item or useful piece of mundane equipment
- Learning a piece of helpful information
- Impressing or ingratiating yourself with someone who grants you a small favor
- Noticing a hidden danger well before it strikes, giving you time to avoid or prepare for it

In lieu of other rewards, the Director can also decide that a hero who succeeds on a test with a reward earns the players a hero token (see Hero Tokens).

#### OPTION: LET PLAYERS PITCH CONSEQUENCES AND REWARDS

Coming up with consequences and rewards for tests can be a big part of the fun for many Directors, but even the best of us occasionally run low on ideas. That’s why the game gives the default option of consequences and rewards in the form of Malice and hero tokens. However, if you’re a Director who prefers narrative consequences and rewards, consider asking the players to pitch you different consequences and rewards when they make a test. You can reject, add to, or modify their ideas as you see fit. Players who take this option should understand that they need to pitch real consequences when they suffer one, and not minor rewards disguised as consequences.

### HOW LONG DOES IT TAKE?

The amount of time required for a task involving a test is determined by the Director. A task such as recalling lore with a Reason test might take no time at all. Ducking behind a barrel to hide with an Agility test might require a maneuver or an action, while tracking a band of voiceless talkers through the World Below could take hours or even days.

#### TESTS DURING COMBAT

Many (but not all) tests that a hero might make during combat are made as maneuvers. See **Make a Test in Maneuvers** for more information.

### CAN I TRY AGAIN?

In many cases when you fail a test, you can’t attempt the test again unless the circumstances of the test change. For instance, if you attempt an Agility test to pick a lock and fail, you can’t attempt to pick the lock again unless you get some better lockpicks, oil the lock, have someone demonstrate how to pick a similar lock, and so on.

The Director decides when the circumstances have changed enough to allow a new attempt at a test.

## HEROES MAKE TESTS

If a hero attempts to sneak by an enemy guard unnoticed, should the hero make an Agility test to sneak, or should the guard make an Intuition test to catch the hero in the act? If a cultist lies to a hero about the location of a secret temple, does the cultist roll a Presence test to conceal the truth, or does the hero roll an Intuition test to discern the cultist’s honesty?

Unless the rules state otherwise, heroes make tests and NPCs do not. Heroes are the stars of the story, and the consequences and rewards of tests have longer-lasting implications for them. There are exceptions to this rule, of course. If a hero travels with an NPC retainer or companion, that NPC would almost certainly make tests too. But for the most part, NPCs working against the heroes never need to make tests.

To quickly assess the difficulty of a task and the test made to attempt it, the Director can use the following guidelines (though these are not hard and fast rules):

- **Easy Test**: A test is easy if only one creature opposes the hero, and that opposed creature would have a lower bonus to their test roll for the task than the hero does. If a hero with an Agility score of 2 attempts to sneak by a guard with an Intuition score of 0, the test is easy.
- **Moderate Test**: A test is moderate if multiple creatures oppose the hero and those creatures would have lower bonuses to their test rolls than the hero, or if only one creature opposes the hero and has the same test bonus as the hero.
- **Hard Test**: A test is hard if an opposed creature would have a higher bonus to their test roll than the hero, or if multiple creatures with the same test bonus as the hero oppose the hero.

The failure consequences of opposed actions are some of the easiest to create on the fly. Fail to hide from someone, and they see you. Fail to lie to someone, and they catch your duplicity. Fail to arm wrestle someone for a free ale, and you’re picking up the tab. The consequence is that the opposition bests the hero.

### NPCS ROLL FOR DECEPTIVE TASKS

At times, a hero and an NPC might oppose each other in a scenario where the Director chooses for the NPC to make a test instead of a player. This occurs when an NPC undertakes an action the heroes aren’t aware of or aren’t seeking actively to notice. By having the NPC roll in these scenarios, the Director can keep secret the fact that the task is happening, as well as its outcome.

For example, if an assassin attempts to ambush the heroes while they sit around a campfire without anyone keeping watch for danger, the assassin makes an Agility test to sneak up on the heroes unnoticed. The Director rolls and doesn’t reveal the result until the heroes actually realize someone is approaching their camp. If the assassin fails the test, the heroes notice immediately as their assailant loudly steps on a twig. If the assassin succeeds, the heroes don’t notice until the assailant is right on top of them. But if any player had said that their hero was on the lookout for danger, that hero would make an Intuition test instead.

An NPC might also make a Presence test if they lie to the heroes, as long as the heroes have no reason to believe the character would be deceptive. You’ll know if the heroes are wary in that way, because the players will ask if they can make a test to discern the NPC’s honesty.

The difficulty of the NPC’s test can be modified by the skills and characteristics of the heroes they attempt to deceive, in the same way NPC statistics can modify a hero’s test difficulty.

As an optional rule, the Director is also free to ask the heroes to make a reactive test to a deceptive NPC action instead (see **Reactive Tests**) whenever they see fit.

### OPTIONAL RULE: OPPOSED POWER ROLLS

In the very rare occurrence that two or more heroes are in conflict with each other in a way that requires them to make tests, the Director can have all the heroes involved make a test. The hero with the highest result on their power roll wins. You can’t earn a reward as part of these opposed power rolls, and they don’t follow the typical difficulty structure or have three different tiers of possible outcomes.

For example, if your hero attempts to sneak by an allied hero, you would make an Agility test opposed by the player of the other character making an Intuition test. If your hero gets the higher result, you sneak by without the other hero noticing. If the other hero gets a higher result, they catch you in the act of sneaking. If multiple sneaking heroes attempt to get by multiple heroes on the lookout for sneaks, then each character makes a test and all the results are compared to determine which heroes on guard notice which sneaking heroes.

In the event of a tie in an opposed test, the state of the scene doesn’t change. In the previous example, a tie means that if a hero on guard duty didn’t know a sneaking hero was there, then the guard hero remains oblivious. If the guard did know the sneak was out there somewhere and the sneak is trying to avoid being noticed, a tie means that the guard still knows the sneak is there.

The Director can also use opposed power rolls when heroes face off against important NPCs using tests.

## REACTIVE TESTS

At certain times when a hero isn’t engaged in overcoming a task, the Director might ask the player of the hero to make a test without context, explaining the test only after the power roll is made. This often happens when a hero has a chance of knowing or noticing something of significance that the player doesn’t know to look for or ask about.

Reactive tests are typically made in the following circumstances, though the Director can call for them in any appropriate scenario:

- **Hidden Environmental Features**: The Director asks for an Intuition test to notice a secret door, a hidden trap, or some other disguised environmental feature.
- **Hidden Monsters**: The Director calls for an Intuition test to notice a hidden monster (or they could use the rules in **NPCs Roll for Deceptive Tasks**).
- **Hidden Motives**: The Director can ask for an Intuition test during a conversation to gauge how well a hero can read an NPC, judging whether they’re lying, withholding information, or concealing an emotional response. (The Director could also use the rules in **NPCs Roll for Deceptive Tasks**.)
- **Recall Lore**: The Director might ask a hero to make a Reason test when dealing with a new object, a piece of information, or an event to see what history or details the hero might already know about it.

### DIRECTOR’S OPTION: SECRET REACTIVE TESTS

Some Directors prefer to make the power rolls for reactive tests for the heroes rather than asking the players to do so. This allows the Director to make the rolls when appropriate for hidden objects, creatures, motivations, and information without tipping off the players that there is information to be gained. Having the Director roll requires the Director to have everyone’s characteristics and skills written down (whether physically or digitally) for easy reference.

## SKILLS

Skills represent the different specializations a hero has outside of attacking, defending, and using their ancestry features, class features, and equipment. Whenever you make a test, having a particular skill associated with the test increases your chance of success.

### APPLYING SKILLS

If you have a skill that applies to a test you make, you gain a +2 bonus (not an edge) to the test. For instance, if your hero has the **Hide** skill, you have a +2 bonus to any test you make that involves hiding yourself. This might include an Agility test to hide behind a barrel, or a Presence test to disappear into a crowd.

You can’t apply more than one skill to a test.

#### JUSTIFY THE SKILL

It’s not the Director’s job to know all the skills in this game or to know the specific skills your hero has. Instead, the Director asks you to make a test with a characteristic, and you tell the Director if you think you have a skill that applies. If it’s not obvious why the skill applies, tell your Director how your hero is approaching the task and justify why that approach uses the skill. The Director then decides if you get the +2 bonus or not. If the Director disagrees with you, that’s the final word. Lose gracefully.

If the Director does agree with you, then you get the +2 bonus from the skill! Approaching problems creatively, while remaining reasonable, can help you get the most out of your skills. For example, if you’re making a Presence test to impress a noble at a party, the **Brag** skill is the obvious choice. But what if you don’t have that skill? Maybe you could instead try to impress the noble with a Presence test that uses the **Magic** skill (which you do have), as you give a brief, exciting lecture about the nature of the elements. If I was your Director, I’d allow it!

Sometimes, you won’t have a skill that applies to a test. That’s okay! If your characteristic score is decent, you likely still have a good chance of success without a skill.

#### MIXING CHARACTERISTICS AND SKILLS

The bonuses from characteristics and the +2 from skills are separate and can apply to the same roll. Although certain skills are often paired with one characteristic more than others, a skill can apply to any characteristic test that makes sense. The Director has the final say on which characteristic is used to complete a task and can call for a different characteristic based on the circumstances.

For example, intimidating someone with a purely verbal threat is a Presence test. But if a player describes their character tearing a log in half with their bare hands to intimidate a foe, the Director is likely to call for a Might test instead. The **Intimidate** skill applies to both tests. In the same way, scaling the side of a building is covered by a Might test, but if a hero does a series of leaps from one balcony to another to reach a roof, the Director could call for an Agility test instead. The **Climb** skill applies to both of these tests.

### MANY SPECIFIC SKILLS

This game includes a big list of skills, and each is fairly specific. For example, instead of one **Athletics** skill that covers climbing, jumping, swimming, and lifting heavy objects, your character might use separate **Climb**, **Jump**, **Lift**, and **Swim** skills. Instead of a **Thievery** skill that covers picking locks, picking pockets, and disabling traps, the game has three skills: **Pick Lock**, **Pick Pocket**, and **Sabotage**.

We made the decision to have a lot of specific skills based on our design goals. First, having skills this specific means that you will frequently make tests that don’t use one of your character’s skills and simply apply a characteristic. By not having a few broader skills, it means that having a character who covers the spread of every skill is actually impossible. Luckily, the math of the game doesn’t require you to have a skill to have a decent chance of success on a test. That means heroes can attempt tasks without the help of a skill just because someone needs to do it, and that is pretty darn heroic!

Since players don’t need to be worried about their characters covering a wide spread of skills, they’re free to choose the skills they think fit their heroes best and are the most fun to work with. In this way, you can get pretty specific with the hero you want to make. Maybe you’re thinking about an elementalist who has a gymnastic background in jumping and tumbling, and who also studied religion and blacksmithing. You can make that in our game! Having a specific backstory is part of cinematic storytelling.

Our rules for skills allow for them to be flexibly applied to any test that is appropriate for the skill. This encourages clever thinking. A player can ask the Director, “I want to impress the duke with a story about how I ascended the sheer Cliffs of Azgahnan. Can I use my **Climb** skill to get a +2 bonus to my **Presence** test?” That’s great! Getting creative like that is a lot of fun. It paints a visual picture, and it’s tactical thinking! However, if the skills in a game are too broad in the kinds of activities they represent, that sometimes encourages players to find a way to apply the same skill over and over again with as many tests as possible. This isn’t fun for anyone, and doesn’t make a very compelling story.

### SKILL GROUPS

Skills are broken down into five groups: **crafting**, **exploration**, **interpersonal**, **intrigue**, and **lore**.

#### FOR THE DIRECTOR: MAKE YOUR OWN SKILLS

Directors should feel free to make their own skills that they feel are relevant and useful to their campaigns and adventures. For instance, the game doesn’t have a **Brewing** skill for brewing ale or a **Painting** skill for making art because those aren’t tasks that typically come up or require a test in a game about fighting monsters and saving the world. However, a Director could decide that their campaign involves poisoned barrels of ale and large amounts of counterfeit art, and that adding these two new skills to the game would make it more fun for the players. The Director simply needs to pick a group for these new skills—in this case, **crafting** makes sense. They then let the players know that they can swap out any crafting skill they have for these new skills.

#### CRAFTING SKILLS

Skills from the crafting skill group are used in the creation and appraisal of goods and for jury-rigging contraptions. They are especially useful during rests and downtime.

Rewards for tests made with crafting skills typically include having leftover rare material used in the creation process, knowing a buyer willing to pay extra for goods or items you’re appraising, or making a jury-rigged device so amazing that it lasts for more uses than it should.

Failure consequences for tests made with crafting skills typically include wasting rare materials used in the creation process, greatly overestimating or underestimating an item’s value, and poorly jury-rigging a contraption so that it harms people (or at least the wrong people).

##### CRAFTING SKILLS

| Skill        | Use                                           |
|--------------|----------------------------------------------|
| Alchemy      | Make bombs and potions                       |
| Architecture | Create buildings and vehicles               |
| Blacksmithing| Forge metal armor and weapons               |
| Fletching    | Make ranged weapons and ammunition          |
| Forgery      | Create false badges, documents, and other items |
| Jewelry      | Create bracelets, crowns, rings, and other jewelry |
| Mechanics    | Build machines and clockwork items          |
| Tailoring    | Craft cloth and leather clothing            |

#### EXPLORATION SKILLS

Skills from the exploration skill group are used to physically explore the environment around the characters, and to overcome physical obstacles.

Rewards for tests made with exploration skills typically include helping another creature engaged in the same task succeed without needing to also make a test, automatically succeeding on a follow-up test while engaged in the same task, reaching a destination faster than you anticipated, and learning about or avoiding an upcoming hazard.

Failure consequences for tests made with exploration skills include harming yourself, your gear, or your allies, becoming lost, or stumbling headlong into a hazard or a place you were trying to avoid.

##### EXPLORATION SKILLS

| Skill       | Use                                           |
|-------------|----------------------------------------------|
| Climb       | Move up vertical surfaces                    |
| Drive       | Control vehicles                             |
| Endurance   | Remain engaged in strenuous activity over a long period of time |
| Gymnastics  | Move across unsteady or narrow surfaces, and tumble |
| Heal        | Use mundane first aid                        |
| Jump        | Leap vertical and horizontal distances       |
| Lift     | Pick up, carry, and throw heavy objects          |
| Navigate | Read a map and travel without becoming lost      |
| Ride     | Ride and control a mount who isn’t sapient, such as a horse |
| Swim     | Move through deep liquid                         |

#### INTERPERSONAL SKILLS

Skills from the interpersonal skill group are used to socially interact with other creatures and are particularly useful during negotiations. Aside from the **Handle Animals** skill, you can generally only use interpersonal skills when you attempt to influence creatures who have emotions and who can understand you.

Rewards for tests made with interpersonal skills typically include gaining an extra favor, item, or piece of information from the person or people you interact with.

Failure consequences for tests made with interpersonal skills include making the person you’re interacting with angry, sad, embarrassed, offended, or otherwise upset or uncomfortable, which might cause them to ignore you, storm off, spread rumors about you, attack you, betray you, blackmail you, or otherwise attempt to harm you.

##### INTERPERSONAL SKILLS

| Skill         | Use                                              |
|---------------|--------------------------------------------------|
| Brag          | Impress others with stories of your deeds       |
| Empathize     | Relate to someone on a personal level           |
| Flirt         | Attract romantic attention from someone         |
| Gamble        | Make bets with others                           |
| Handle Animals| Interact with animal wildlife that isn’t sapient|
| Interrogate   | Obtain information from a creature withholding it|
| Intimidate    | Awe or scare a creature                         |
| Lead          | Inspire people to action                        |
| Lie           | Convince someone that a falsehood is true       |
| Music         | Perform music vocally or with an instrument     |
| Perform       | Engage in dance, oratory, acting, or some other physical performance |
| Persuade      | Convince someone to agree with you through use of your charms and grace |
| Read Person   | Read the emotions and body language of other creatures |

#### INTRIGUE SKILLS

Skills from the intrigue skill group are used in tasks centered around investigation, thievery, and spycraft.

Rewards for tests made with skills from this group typically include helping another creature engaging in the same task succeed without needing to also make a test, automatically succeeding on a follow-up test while engaged in the same task, discovering helpful information in addition to what you set out to learn, and performing an extra bit of clandestine activity in addition to what you set out to do.

Failure consequences for tests made with intrigue skills include getting caught in the act or failing to notice a detail that places you in danger, such as triggering a trap or walking into an ambush.

##### INTRIGUE SKILLS

| Skill          | Uses                                                      |
|----------------|-----------------------------------------------------------|
| Alertness      | Intuitively sense the details of your surroundings       |
| Conceal Object | Hide an object on your person or in your environment     |
| Disguise       | Change your appearance to look like a different person   |
| Eavesdrop      | Actively listen to something that is hard to hear, such as a whispered conversation through a door |
| Escape Artist  | Escape from bonds such as rope or manacles               |
| Hide           | Conceal yourself from others’ observation                |
| Pick Lock      | Open a lock without using the key                        |
| Pick Pocket    | Steal an item that another person wears or carries without them noticing |
| Sabotage       | Disable a mechanical device such as a trap               |
| Search         | Actively search an environment for important details and items |
| Sneak          | Move silently                                             |
| Track          | Follow a trail that another creature has left behind     |

#### LORE SKILLS

Skills from the lore skill group are used to research and recall specific information. They are especially useful during rests and downtime.

Rewards for tests made with lore skills typically include learning an extra piece of useful information.

Failure consequences for tests made with lore skills typically include learning an incorrect piece of information that seems useful but actually makes things worse or wastes time. (It’s fun to roleplay these sorts of moments, so lean in!) Alternatively, the Director can make medium and hard lore tests for each hero in secret and let the players know the narrative outcome without revealing the result of the dice.

##### LORE SKILLS

| Skill               | Use                                                           |
|---------------------|---------------------------------------------------------------|
| Culture             | Knowing about a culture’s customs, folktales, and taboos      |
| Criminal Underworld | Knowing about criminal organizations, their crimes, their relationships, and their leaders |
| History             | Knowing about significant past events                        |
| Magic               | Knowing about magical places, spells, rituals, items, and phenomena |
| Monsters            | Knowing monster ecology, strengths, and weaknesses           |
| Nature              | Knowing about natural flora, fauna, and weather              |
| Psionics            | Knowing about psionic places, spells, rituals, items, and phenomena |
| Religion            | Knowing about religious mythology, practices, and rituals    |
| Rumors              | Knowing gossip, legends, and uncertain truths                |
| Society             | Knowing noble etiquette and the leadership and power dynamics of noble families |
| Timescape           | Knowing about the various planets of the timescape           |

#### ARE ALL SKILLS EQUAL?

This game has a big list of skills, and it’s impossible for us or anyone else to know in advance which will be most useful during a campaign. For instance, the **Swim** skill might be used constantly during a campaign that takes place on the ocean and has heroes exploring underwater ruins, but it won’t come up as much in a campaign that takes place entirely in a vast desert. The **Psionics** skill might come up a lot in a campaign where voiceless talkers are the main foes, and **Magic** might be more useful in a game where the heroes take on a circle of evil wizards. 

If you’re worried about whether a skill you’d like to take will be useful, discuss your skill list with the Director after you create a hero. At the Director’s discretion, you can swap out any skill you have with any other skill in the same group.

## EXAMPLE TESTS

Jorn, a tactician played by Alyssa, Val, a conduit played by Grace, and Korvo, a shadow played by James, want to scale the 40-foot-high walls surrounding the Star Chamber to see if they can covertly obtain information about their enemy, Lady Morgant.

**Director**: The towering walls that surround the Star Chamber stand before you, the only iron gate closed and locked with a platoon of armed guards outside.

**James**: Let’s move to the side of the wall opposite the gate and make our ascent there.

**Grace**: Agreed.

**Director**: Okay. It’ll be a **Might** test to get up to the top of the wall.

**Alyssa**: Let me go first. I’ve got good **Might** and can throw you down a rope once I’m up there.

**Grace**: Sounds good.

**Director**: Okay then. Does Jorn have any skills that apply here?

**Alyssa**: How about **Climb**?

**Director**: For sure. Okay roll it up.

The Director knows the walls of the castle of the Star Chamber are smooth and hard to climb, specifically to repel invaders. The test’s difficulty is hard, but they keep it a secret for now.

Alyssa rolls 2d10 and gets a 13. She then adds her **Might** score of 2 to the roll and her +2 bonus for having an applicable skill, for a total of 17.

**Alyssa**: 17! That’s tier 3, baby!

The Director looks at the **Test Difficulty Outcomes** table and realizes that tier 3 is a success on a hard test.

**Director**: Okay. You’re on top of the wall. You can see a few guards patrolling on the opposite side of the wall in the distance, but they’re looking out at the city right now.

**Alyssa**: Great! I toss down a rope. Korvo, you’re next.

**Grace**: So it’s a **Might** test. Would you let me use **Endurance** too? It’s a lot of physical exertion to climb.

**Director**: It’s not a climb that would take you hours, so I don’t think **Endurance** applies here. But hey, the rope does make this an easier test.

**Grace**: Fair. Okay, dice. Let’s do this.

Given the rope, the Director decides that this is an easy test. Grace rolls 2d10 and gets an 11! With her **Might** score of 2, that’s a 13.

**Grace**: 13! That’s a tier 2 result for Val.

The Director looks at the **Test Difficulty Outcomes** table and realizes that tier 2 is a success on an easy test.

**Director**: Good news! You make it to the top of the wall.

**James**: Ah, crap. I have a **Might** of -1 and no applicable skills to use. Unless I could **Intimidate** the rope into carrying me up?

**Director**: Wishful thinking.

**Alyssa**: What if Korvo hangs onto the rope and I lift him up while he just hangs on for a ride?

**Director**: Sure. That’d be a **Might** test, if Korvo’s down for it.

**James**: Nothing risked, nothing saved. Let’s do it. Just be careful, any loud noises could attract those guards.

**Alyssa**: Please, I’m a pro. Since I’m lifting this polder off the ground, does the **Lift** skill apply?

**Director**: Yes it does. Roll it up.

The Director decides that lifting the polder is a medium difficulty test. Alyssa rolls 2d10 and gets a 2. With her **Might** score and **Lift** skill bonus of +2, it’s a 6.

**Alyssa**: 6. Oof. That’s tier 1.

**Director**: Which is a failure without consequence. You just can’t lift Korvo off the ground without making a lot of noise.

The Director realizes they can bring in an optional rule here, allowing the players to decide if they get a failure without consequence or success with a consequence.

**Director**: I’ll give you a choice here. You can leave Korvo on the ground or pull him up and suffer the consequence of making some noise while doing so.

**Grace**: Ah, pull the polder up.

**Alyssa**: Yeah. We have to face these guards sometime.

**James**: Thanks for not leaving me behind!

**Director**: As you yank Korvo off the ground and pull him up onto the wall, a guard turns a bullseye lantern your way, calling out, “Who goes there?”

## ASSIST A TEST

You can attempt to assist another creature with a test they make, provided you have a skill that applies to the test, the other creature isn’t using that same skill on the test, and you can describe how your character helps to the Director’s satisfaction. In other words, your attempt to help has to make sense, and you have to bring some useful expertise to the table. Helping another creature sneak by shouting encouragement at them isn’t going to make them stealthier.

When you attempt to assist another creature, make a test using the skill you choose, with a characteristic chosen by the Director based on the action you take to help. The outcome of that test determines the bonus applied to the test you’re assisting:

- **11 or lower**: You get in the way or make things worse. The creature takes a bane on their test.
- **12–16**: Your help grants the other creature an edge on their test.
- **17+**: Your help gives the other creature a double edge on their test.

For example, if you want to use the **Flirt** skill to help another hero pick a jailor’s pocket, the Director might ask you to make a **Presence** test using **Flirt**. The outcome of that test determines the bonus you provide to the other hero’s **Agility** test to pick the pocket.

## GROUP TESTS

Whenever two or more heroes attempt to overcome a single, simple task together that calls for them to make the same test, the Director can call for a group test. For example, if several heroes are all attempting to climb the outside of a tower at the same time, giving each other boosts and advice, they could be asked to make a **Might** group test. If a group of heroes attempt to sneak by a sleeping ogre, they might make an **Agility** group test.

### GROUP TEST DIFFICULTY

The Director determines the difficulty of a group test the same way they do for individual tests. Group tests can be easy, medium, or hard.

### MAKING A GROUP TEST

Each hero participating in the group test makes the test individually as usual, but the Director waits until all the tests have been made to interpret the results.

### GROUP TEST OUTCOME

When interpreting the outcome of a group test, the Director first determines if the task succeeded or not before figuring out rewards and consequences. If half or more of the heroes making the group test succeed, then the group test succeeds. Otherwise, the group test fails.

If the heroes succeeded and half or more of them obtained a reward from the test, the Director gives the group a collective reward and ignores any consequences incurred in the test. This collective reward should be equivalent to earning two individual rewards. In fact, it could be two consumable items, juicy pieces of information, or hero tokens. However, it could also be something more tailored to the task. For instance, if the heroes earn a collective reward while sneaking through the camp of an enemy army, the Director might allow them to sabotage a bunch of war engines or steal a few horses on their way out.

If the heroes failed the group test and more than half of them incurred a consequence as a result, the Director gives the group a collective consequence and ignores any earned rewards. This collective consequence should affect everyone. An easy option is for the stress of failing the test to cause each hero to take a bane on their next power roll, or for the Director to gain 2 Malice per hero at the start of the next combat encounter. The consequence could also be tailored to the task. For instance, if the heroes fail in their attempt to sneak through the camp of an enemy army, they’re spotted, and the camp immediately goes on alert as waves of enemies attack them.

If fewer than half the heroes get a consequence or reward on their individual tests, then the group test simply succeeds or fails.

## MONTAGE TESTS

When a group of heroes works together over time to accomplish a common goal that requires more than a single characteristic, the Director can call for a montage test. Such tests typically take place over a prolonged period and focus on collective or shared activities. Examples include navigating a vast desert, convincing farmers to rise up against a tyrannical leader, or performing a ritual to open a magically sealed gate.

In a montage test, the players take turns making tests as their characters tackle a task together in a montage test round. Each hero has a chance to make a test (or to assist another hero’s test) intended to influence the outcome of the task (see **Assist a Test**).

A hero can also spend their turn using an item, ability, or other option they have available that they believe can help in the montage test. For example, if a group of heroes wants to cross an ocean on a sailing ship before a storm begins, one hero might make use of a magic fan that creates wind to keep the sails full day and night. The Director decides that this clever action gives the heroes 2 automatic successes in the montage test, with no individual tests necessary (see **Total Successes and Failures**).

Once a hero makes a test, assists with a test, or uses an ability or other option, they can’t do anything else as part of the montage test until each other hero involved in the montage test does so as well. A hero can also choose to do nothing, most often if they have no one to assist and fear that their actions might make the situation worse (see **Montage Test Outcomes**). Once every hero has had a chance to act, the montage test round ends, and a new one begins.

### TIME AND STAKES

As the name suggests, montage tests create a kind of cinematic montage in the action of the game. A montage test can take place over the course of several hours or days, with each individual test or other activity set up as a brief vignette within the montage, starring one of the heroes. Combat encounters, negotiations, and other challenges and scenes can break up a montage test (see **Sample Montage Test** below).

The Director should deploy montage tests only when the players are engaged in overcoming a goal that has stakes for the story and some sort of pressure, such as a looming deadline or impending harm. A montage test is great for a race to get to another location before an enemy army does, a chase to escape or catch up to a foe, weathering a hazard, preparing a village for war, or similar activities. Low- or no-stakes activities such as travel through a forest with no time pressure, or training during a respite to use a new kit, can be narrated in montage style, but they don’t require a montage test.

### DIRECTOR SETS THE SCENE

At the start of a montage test, the Director should describe the scenario underlying the task at hand, and the various challenges the heroes might face as they attempt to collectively accomplish it. For example, if the heroes are attempting to chase down a pickpocket through a crowded market, the Director might talk about the throngs of innocent people blocking the way forward, obscuring the characters’ vision, and making noise that complicates attempts to hear the thief’s nimble footsteps. There are also traveling carts to dodge, the speed and dexterity of the pursued character to contend with, and a pack of stray dogs who chase after anyone who sprints through the market. Describing these obstacles gives the heroes ideas about what they’re trying to overcome as they attempt to achieve their goals.

### INDIVIDUAL TESTS IN MONTAGE TESTS

The difficulty of each individual test in a montage test is set by the Director and can vary from test to test. For instance, if the heroes are preparing the defenses of a village threatened by a band of approaching raiders, the Director might decide that a character who wants to dig a trench around the village needs to make an easy **Might** test. Another hero wants to train the untested farmers of the village in the ways of war, and the Director decides this is a hard **Reason** test.

The same rules and guidelines that apply to all individual tests apply here. If a hero has a clever, out-of-the-box idea that the Director thinks should automatically succeed without rolling dice, it does. If the circumstances of the test should grant an edge or a bane, they do. Individual test outcomes shouldn’t halt the story.

The Director should couch each success or failure as it relates to the overall goal of the montage test. If the heroes are trying to reach an ancient temple, failing a **Might** test to ford a river in their path doesn’t mean they don’t cross the river and are stuck on the other side. But it could mean that failing to cross the river in a timely manner gives a rival group of villains the chance to beat the party to the temple.

The rewards and consequences of individual tests made during a montage test should be handled on an individual basis. The Director can use the default additional **Malice** in the next combat encounter for consequences and **hero tokens** for rewards to keep the montage moving.

### CAN’T USE THE SAME SKILL TWICE

An individual character can’t use the same skill more than once in a montage test. Though multiple heroes can use the same skill, a test or an assist with a specific skill represents each character’s entire contribution to the montage test with that skill. At the Director’s discretion, this restriction can be lifted for prolonged montage tests, or for montage tests that are limited in scope and have only a small number of skills that apply to them.

### NEW CHALLENGES FOR EACH TEST

In general, when a hero makes a test as part of a montage test, they should choose new obstacles to overcome that haven’t already been tackled as part of the test. If the heroes are chasing a thief through the marketplace and one of them has already distracted the pack of stray dogs with a deft hand and a piece of meat, additional tests made to distract the animals don’t count toward the result of the montage test.

When it fits the scenario, the Director can adjust this restriction. If part of a montage test involves searching for people trapped in a burning building, the Director is likely to allow multiple tests to fight or avoid the fire, since this will happen throughout the montage test, not just once.

### DIRECTOR CAN INTRODUCE MORE CHALLENGES

During a montage test, a Director can introduce new challenges for the heroes to face. While attempting to run out of a burning building from the top floor, the characters might discover that by the time they reach the second floor, beams are starting to fall and glass windows are exploding as the structure begins to collapse. These new challenges can be incorporated into the tests the heroes subsequently make.

### TOTAL SUCCESSES AND FAILURES

The Director or another player will track the total number of successes and failures the heroes earn during a montage test. Every montage test has a success limit and a failure limit. When the number of successful tests equals the success limit, the montage test ends and the heroes achieve total success (see **Montage Test Outcomes**). The montage test can also end when the number of failed tests equals the failure limit, and the heroes suffer total failure.

### LIMITED ROUNDS

A montage test should last only 2 montage test rounds. If the heroes don’t end the montage test by achieving the success limit or failure limit, the montage test ends when the second montage test round is over. This time limit helps to keep a montage test from becoming a slog, and prevents heroes from simply using their turns to assist the one hero with the best chance of success. This can inspire each hero to be a more active participant in the montage test. That said, the Director can increase the number of rounds a montage test lasts if they wish to create a particularly grueling challenge.

### MONTAGE TEST DIFFICULTY

The Director determines the success limit and failure limit of a montage test. They can share this information or keep it secret, depending on what feels the most fun and dramatic for the situation and the players.

In general, the higher the success limit, the harder and more complicated it is for the heroes to overcome the montage test, since a hero can’t make the same test twice. The **Montage Test Difficulty** table gives a recommended success limit and failure limit for easy, moderate, and hard montage tests for groups with five heroes.

#### MONTAGE TEST DIFFICULTY

| Difficulty | Success Limit | Failure Limit |
|------------|--------------|---------------|
| Easy       | 5            | 5             |
| Moderate   | 6            | 4             |
| Hard       | 7            | 3             |

For larger or smaller groups, you can make the following adjustments to keep montage tests achievable but challenging:

- **Four or fewer heroes**: Decrease the success limit and failure limits by 1 (to a minimum of 2) for every hero fewer than five. For example, if your group has only three heroes, an easy montage test has a success and failure limit of 3.
- **Six or more heroes**: Increase the success and failure limits by 1 for every hero more than five.

### MONTAGE TEST OUTCOMES

A montage test can have three different outcomes:

- If the heroes hit the success limit before hitting the failure limit or before the time runs out for the test, they achieve total success.
- If the heroes hit the failure limit or time runs out, and if they’ve achieved at least two more successes than failures, they achieve a partial success.
- If the heroes hit the failure limit or time runs out, and if they don’t have at least two more successes than failures, they suffer total failure.

#### TOTAL SUCCESS

If the heroes earn a total success, they achieve what they set out to do without complication. For instance, if the heroes engaged in a montage test to see if they can cross a desert to reach a city before a tyrant’s army arrives and levels the place, a total success sees them arrive at the city gates with plenty of time to warn people of the impending assault. The heroes earn **1 Victory** when they achieve total success on an easy or moderate montage test, and **2 Victories** on a hard montage test.

#### PARTIAL SUCCESS

If the heroes earn a partial success, they succeed at what they set out to do, but there is a complication or a cost involved. For instance, when crossing the desert to warn the city of the tyrant’s army, a mixed success sees the characters arrive at the city gates with the enemy forces just behind them. Alternatively, the Director might allow the heroes to arrive well before the army, but they don’t cover their movements well enough. The tyrant realizes the city has been warned and decides to call in a favor to have a powerful dragon join the siege. The heroes earn **1 Victory** when they achieve partial success on a hard or moderate montage test.

#### TOTAL FAILURE

If the heroes suffer total failure, they don’t achieve what they set out to do. Just as with standard tests, failure on a group test shouldn’t bring a story to a halt. **Total failure** should make things more interesting and challenging! With a total failure in a montage test to cross the desert and warn the city, the characters arrive at the city to find it already under siege by the tyrant.

### SAMPLE MONTAGE TEST

Four heroes must cross the vast and inhospitable **Infinite Desert** to warn the city of **Ahset** that the tyrannical **Empress Vardo** is coming to conquer them. If the characters arrive in time, they can organize the defenses of the city, giving its people a greater chance of defeating the tyrant.

The Director determines that crossing the desert is a montage test of hard difficulty. With four heroes involved, the success limit is 6 and the failure limit is 2 as the montage test begins:

- **When the test begins, the Director sets the scene.** They tell the players that the desert has extreme temperatures, sudden sandstorms, high dunes to cross, deep sand, chasms, and quicksand lakes. The Director decides that challenges of dunes, deep sand, and quicksand can be tackled multiple times in the test, since the **Infinite Desert** is filled with these hazards.

- **Urdoncara**, a fury, starts things off by asking to make an **Intuition** test using the **Nature** skill to predict the best times of day to travel and rest. She wants the party to avoid the worst of the desert’s extreme temperatures and any sandstorms or other weather phenomena, so that their journey is quickened. The Director decides this is an easy test. Urdoncara makes the test and gets a result of 12, earning 1 success for the montage test.

- **Loric**, a tactician, wants to make a **Reason** test using the **Climb** skill to lead the party over dunes and other hazards with minimal effort. The Director allows the attempt but says that knowing what makes one dune easier to climb than another is difficult, setting the difficulty at medium. Loric gets a 9 on the test and fails with a major consequence, which the Director decides will cause him to take a bane on his next power roll due to the exertion. The montage test currently has 1 success and 1 failure.

- **Karrel**, an elementalist, thinks the group might cross the desert faster if they have specially modified sandshoes that distribute their weight and prevent their feet from sinking into the sand. The Director loves the idea and decides that making four pairs of the shoes while traveling the desert is a medium **Reason** test. Karrel gets to use their **Tailoring** skill and winds up with a result of 13—a success with a consequence. The Director gains an additional 2 Malice at the start of the next combat encounter as a consequence, but the group now has 2 successes and 1 failure on the montage test.

- **Adrian**, a conduit, offers to scout ahead for the group with an **Intuition** test, using the **Navigate** skill to find the best path forward and avoid hazards such as chasms and quicksand. The Director thinks this straightforward task of acting as lookout in a vast desert is an easy task. Adrian smashes it with a 21, and the Director decides to get creative with the reward. Adrian’s lookout skills grant the next hero to act in the montage test an edge on their test. At the end of the first montage test round, the heroes have 3 successes and 1 failure.

Before the next montage test round, the Director pauses the montage test to run a battle with a **kingfissure worm**, who attacks the heroes as they cross over an ancient ruin partially buried in the sand. After the heroes defeat the kingfissure worm, the test continues:

- **Urdoncara** wants to make a **Might** test using the **Lift** skill to carry most of the group’s equipment as they cross the desert, allowing her allies to move more quickly while she keeps up with her superior endurance. The Director thinks this arduous task has a hard difficulty. Urdoncara gets a 17 on the test thanks to the edge from Adrian’s earlier success. The montage test has 4 successes and 1 failure.

- **Loric**, eager to prove himself after his last failure, asks to make a **Might** test using the **Lead** skill, representing tying a rope around his waist to drag his weaker friends over the tallest dunes. The Director likes the idea but doesn’t think the **Lead** skill applies to the task. He tells Loric that **Lift** is more appropriate, since the tactician is using their physical skill to aid their friends and not really doing anything interpersonal. Loric agrees, and the Director sets the test at medium difficulty. Making the test with a bane because of his previous failure, the tactician rolls a 15, which is a success with a consequence. The montage test has 5 successes and 1 failure, but the consequence gives the Director another 2 Malice at the start of the next combat encounter.

- Since the group needs only 1 more success to achieve total success, **Karrel** says she’d like to assist Adrian in whatever task he decides to take on.

- Adrian attempts to recall lore about the **Khem-hor**, wanting to see if he can remember any of their travel techniques from his studies of the region’s history. The Director has him make a hard **Reason** test with an edge, thanks to Karrel’s input on the current state of Khem-hor culture. Adrian gets a 17, and the Director decides that the conduit recalls a shortcut through a canyon tunnel that leads directly to **Ahset**, avoiding a vast lake of quicksand. The heroes get their sixth success in the montage test, achieving total success, and earn 2 **Victories**.

The heroes could have attempted other tests during their travels, such as an **Agility** test using the **Stealth** skill to lead the group through dangerous shortcuts in the desert without being seen or waylaid by predators, a **Reason** test using the **Nature** skill to find enough food and water to keep the group hydrated and fed, or a **Presence** test using the **Music** skill to inspire allies to travel faster with song.

# ENVIRONMENT INTERACTION

As heroes traverse dangerous environments, they face diabolical traps, deadly falls, raging rivers, and other hostile hazards. This chapter covers the basics of how heroes might interact with their environment.

This is a game about heroes, so the environmental hazards and challenges the player characters face make them worthy of the name. They’re not tracking light and rations, but they are finding ways to cross a deep canyon carved by a lava river as the small platform they stand on crumbles beneath them!

This chapter covers the rules that heroes use most while interacting with their environment, aside from tests.

## RESISTANCE ROLLS

Resistance rolls are special power rolls made to avoid harmful effects from traps, hazards, and other creatures’ attacks and abilities. You don’t decide when it’s time to make a resistance roll. Instead, you make one in response to a dangerous situation when the rules or the Director call for it. The higher the result of the resistance roll, the less harm the effect does to your character.

For example, a hero who activates a fire trap might need to make the following resistance roll:

- **Resistance + Agility:**
  - 11 or lower: 9 fire damage
  - 12–16: 6 fire damage
  - 17+: 2 fire damage

## ADJACENT

Many abilities and other options refer to creatures, objects, or spaces that are adjacent to a specified creature. Something is adjacent to a creature if it is within 1 square of that creature.

## FALLING

When you fall 2 or more squares, you take 2 damage for each square you fall, then you land prone. When you fall, you reduce the effective height of the fall by a number of squares equal to your **Agility** score (minimum 0). Falling into liquid that is at least 1 square deep reduces the effective height of a fall by 4 squares.

Falling is not forced movement, but being force-moved downward is considered falling (see Forced Movement in Combat). Movement from falling doesn’t provoke opportunity attacks (see Opportunity Attacks).

### FALLING ONTO ANOTHER CREATURE

If you land on another creature when you fall, that creature takes the same damage you do from the fall. You then land prone in the nearest unoccupied space of your choice. If your size is greater than the creature’s **Might** score, the creature also falls prone.

### FALLING FAR

When you first fall from a great height, you fall 100 squares in the first round. At the end of each subsequent round that you remain falling, you fall another 100 squares.

## HIDE AND SNEAK

Hiding and sneaking are important tools for heroes and their foes. You might want to avoid another creature’s notice to eavesdrop on conversations, steal items, set up an ambush, or avoid a combat encounter.

### HIDING

When you wish to hide from a creature, you must have **cover** or **concealment** (see Combat) from your foe, and that foe can’t observe you attempting to hide. A creature is observing you if they’re aware of your specific location before you attempt to hide. This means they can pinpoint you with their senses and be able to point a finger (or paw or tentacle) at you as if to shout, “There they are!” If you duck behind a barrel to hide from a foe, your attempt to hide has a chance of succeeding only if your foe doesn’t notice you doing so. If you are being chased by a hungry dragon, you can hide only if you first move into a place where the dragon can’t observe you, such as turning a sharp corner into a tunnel full of giant stalagmites before the dragon does. You then make your hide attempt.

When you use the **Hide** maneuver to hide during combat while you have cover or concealment from a creature who isn’t observing you, you are automatically hidden from them unless the Director deems otherwise.

If you hide outside of combat, the Director might ask you to make a **test** using the **Hide** skill to see how well hidden you are. While you are hidden from another creature, you gain an **edge** on attacks made against them, and the creature can’t target you with attacks. This benefit lasts until the end of the turn in which you become no longer hidden.

These rules allow you to be hidden from another creature at the start of your turn, move out of **cover** or **concealment** toward them, and attack while still gaining the benefit of being hidden, as long as you make your attack before the end of the turn in which you moved out of hiding.

You are no longer hidden from a creature if you don’t have cover or concealment from them. If you use an ability, interact with an enemy creature, move without sneaking, or otherwise make noise or reveal yourself while hidden, you are no longer hidden once the action resolves. For instance, if you are hidden and then make an attack, you resolve the attack first, then you are no longer hidden.

#### SEARCHING FOR HIDDEN CREATURES

You can search for creatures who are hidden from you as long as those creatures are within 10 squares of you and you have **line of effect** to them. To do so, you make an **Intuition** test as a maneuver and assess the result:

- **11 or lower**: You find any hidden creatures with an **Agility** of 0 or lower and who don’t have the **Hide** skill.
- **12–16**: You find any hidden creatures who don’t have the **Hide** skill.
- **17 or more**: You find all hidden creatures.

As part of this maneuver, you can point out any creatures you find to allies within 10 squares of you, making those creatures no longer hidden from those allies. If a creature is hidden from your allies but not from you, you can use a maneuver without making a test to point them out to your allies.

### SNEAKING

While you are hidden from another creature and not in combat, you can attempt to **sneak**, which means avoiding the senses of other creatures as you move around them in the open, in order to remain hidden. While sneaking, your speed is halved. If you do so, you can make an **Agility** test with a difficulty set by the Director, remaining hidden during your movement if you succeed. This test can use another characteristic at the Director’s discretion, such as using **Presence** to blend in with a crowd in a packed city street.

## SUPERNATURAL OR MUNDANE

The word "supernatural" is used to describe abilities, creatures, and objects that are **magical** or **psionic** in nature. The word "mundane" is used to describe attacks, creatures, and objects that aren’t magical or psionic.

## SUFFOCATING

During combat or under similarly stressful conditions, you can hold your breath for a number of rounds equal to your **Might** score (minimum 1 round). At the end of each round after that, you take 1d6 damage while holding your breath.

Out of combat, you can hold your breath for a number of minutes equal to your **Might** score. Being unable to breathe after that time counts as a stressful condition, causing you to run out of air as above.

## ADVENTURING GEAR

This isn’t a game about tracking gear, so you don’t need to list every piece of equipment you own on your character sheet. The game assumes that heroes generally have enough to eat and drink, so the rules don’t expect you to track food and water either.

If your character has a skill that implicitly requires gear, such as lockpicks for the **Pick Lock** skill or basic alchemy supplies for use with the **Alchemy** skill, then you have that gear. Likewise, your character is assumed to have standard useful adventuring gear, including a torch, a rope, and a backpack at minimum.

At the Director’s discretion, you might lose certain gear in the course of an adventure, or your gear could break. If this happens, you might not be able to perform certain tasks as effectively without that gear.

# ABILITIES

Your class, kit, ancestry, titles, and other heroic options give you access to abilities that make your hero stand out. Abilities are special actions, maneuvers, and more that allow you to affect creatures, objects, and the environment. Abilities are presented in a format that breaks out specific entries for keywords, time, distance, target, and effect. If an ability is an attack, it also includes a damage entry.

## NAME AND STORY TEXT

Each ability has an evocative name that sets up what it does in the game, followed by a line or two of flavor text that provides a sense of how the use of the ability might appear if described in an action scene in a story. 

The name and story text for abilities sometimes make reference to specific ways in which the ability is used—particularly combat abilities whose names imply specific types of weapons or tactics. However, that narrative flavor has no effect on how an ability can be used. For example, the fury’s Impaling Strike ability allows you to grab a target, setting up the idea of harpooning your monstrous foe with a sword, then wrenching them in close before pulling your weapon free. But you can use that ability with an axe, a mace, a hammer, or any other weapon.

## RESOURCE COST

Some abilities have a Heroic Resource cost to use them. When you use one of these abilities, you spend your Heroic Resource, then activate the ability.

## ABILITY KEYWORDS

Each ability has a “Keyword” entry with one or more keywords that explain how the ability functions.

### AREA

Abilities with the Area keyword create an area of effect. Many area abilities also deal damage, but such abilities are not attacks. See Area Abilities for more information.

### ATTACK

Abilities with the Attack keyword (referred to simply as “attacks”) deal damage to or impose a harmful effect on other creatures.

### CHARGE

Abilities with the Charge keyword can be used with the Charge action in place of a melee free strike (see Charge in Actions in Combat).

### MAGIC

Magic-keyword abilities are used by creatures who can cast spells, have innate magical features, or wield magic items. These abilities do magical things such as create rays of fire, open swirling portals, or summon creatures.

### MELEE

Abilities with the Melee keyword can be used only over very short distances, typically within a creature’s reach, because they require you to touch someone or something with your body, a weapon, or an implement.

### PSIONIC

Psionic-keyword abilities are used by creatures who can manifest psionic powers, have innate psionic features, or wield psionic items. These abilities might create blasts of psychic energy, move objects with telekinesis, or slow down time with chronopathy.

### RANGED

Abilities with the Ranged keyword can be used to affect creatures who are too far away to touch.

### RESISTANCE

Abilities with the Resistance keyword require the target to make a resistance roll to lessen or avoid their effect.  
(Playtest note: Only monsters and villains have Resistance-keyword abilities right now.)

### WEAPON

The Weapon keyword is used in attacks that are made with blades, bows, and other such items. Weapon abilities also include attacks creatures make with their own bodies, such as punches, kicks, bites, tail slaps, and more. Your kit determines the types of weapons you wield and use with weapon abilities (see Kits).

## IT’S NOT ALL ATTACKS!

The Attack keyword and phrases like “makes an attack” are reserved for abilities that have a creature specifically targeting other creatures or objects (not an area), and dealing harm to them by making a power roll. Other abilities that target areas of effect, or that require the target to make a resistance roll instead of having the creature using the ability making the roll, are not attacks. They instead use the Area and Resistance keywords, respectively. That means if a feature distinctly interacts with an attack (for instance, the conduit’s Word of Guidance triggered action), that feature has no effect on abilities with the Area or Resistance keyword.

## TYPE

Each ability has a “Type” entry that describes how long it takes to execute the ability. For instance, if you use an ability that has “Action” as its type entry, you must use your action to activate the ability. Most abilities require you to use an action, a maneuver, a triggered action, a free maneuver, or a free triggered action (see Combat for more information).

If an ability takes 1 minute or longer to use, you can’t use it in combat.

## TRIGGER

If an ability requires a triggered action or a free triggered action to use, a “Trigger” entry is part of the ability. For example, the trigger for the tactician’s Parry ability is: “A creature makes a Weapon attack against the target.”

## DISTANCE

An ability’s “Distance” entry indicates how close you need to be to a creature or object to affect that target with the ability.

### MELEE

Melee abilities have a distance of “Melee X” and require you to touch a creature with your body, a weapon, or an implement. X is the distance in squares at which you can physically make contact with another creature or object targeted by the ability. For instance, a distance of “Melee 2” can be used to target creatures or objects within 2 squares of you.

### RANGED

Abilities with a distance noted as “Ranged” can be used to target creatures who are more than a touch away. Ranged distances are presented as “Ranged X,” with X being the number of squares away a creature or object can be while still allowing you to target them with the ability. For instance, a distance of “Ranged 5” can be used to target creatures or objects within 5 squares of you.  
If you make a ranged attack while an enemy is adjacent to you, you have a bane on the attack’s power roll.

### MELEE OR RANGED

Some abilities have a melee distance and a ranged distance. When you use such an ability, you choose whether to use it as a melee or a ranged ability. The ability never has both the Melee and Ranged keywords at the same time. For example, if you have the Cloak and Dagger kit, which has a weapon damage bonus to melee and ranged abilities, only one bonus at a time applies to an ability with the Melee or Ranged keywords.

### AREA ABILITIES

Area abilities cover an area, creating an effect within that area that lets you target multiple creatures or objects at once. When an ability allows you to create an area of effect, you are sometimes given a distance, noted as “within X,” that describes how many squares away from you the area can be. If an area ability doesn’t originate from you, then at least 1 square of the area of effect must be within that distance and your line of effect. This square is referred to as the origin square of the area of effect. The area of effect can spread from the origin square however you choose, as long as the area of effect conforms to the shape and arrangement rules of that particular area.

Unless otherwise noted, area abilities don’t pass through solid barriers such as walls or ceilings or spread around corners. As long as you have line of effect and distance to the origin square, you can place an area ability to include one or more squares where you don’t have line of effect (see Line of Effect below).

An area ability might use any of the following areas of effect:

- **Aura:** When an ability creates an aura, it is expressed as “X aura.” Aura areas always originate from you and move with you for the duration of the ability that created them. A creature must be within X squares of you to be targeted by an aura ability.
- **Burst:** When an ability creates a burst area, it is expressed as “X burst.” Burst areas always originate from you. A creature must be within X squares of you to be targeted with a burst ability.
- **Cube:** When an ability affects a cubic area, it is expressed as “X cube.” X is the length of all the area’s sides.
- **Line:** When an ability affects a linear area, it is expressed as “A × B line.” This means that A equals the line’s length in squares, while B equals the line’s width and height in squares.
- **Wall:** When an ability creates a wall, it is expressed as “X wall,” where X equals how many squares are used to make the wall. When you place a wall, you can build it one square at a time, but each square must share at least one side (not just a corner) with another square of the wall. You can stack squares on top of each other to make the wall higher. Unless otherwise stated, a wall can’t be placed in occupied squares, and a wall blocks line of effect.
- **Special:** Some abilities create a unique area of effect. The distance entry of such abilities specifies how the area is created.

### SELF

If an ability has a distance of “Self,” that ability originates from or affects only you. The ability’s description specifies how it works.

## TARGET

The “Target” entry of an ability notes the number of creatures or objects who can be targeted by that ability.

### CREATURE

If an ability targets one or more creatures, you can have it target any creature within the ability’s distance. You aren’t an eligible creature target for your own abilities unless those abilities also have “self” as a target.

### OBJECT

If an ability targets one or more objects, you can have it target any object within the ability’s distance. Unless otherwise noted, objects have poison and psychic immunity.  
When an ability can target creatures and objects, the ability can damage objects. However, unless otherwise noted or if the Director decides otherwise, objects are immune to an ability’s other effects.

### ENEMY

If an ability targets one or more enemies, you can use the ability to target only creatures who are hostile to you. Typically, you decide who counts as an enemy, though the Director has the final say.

### ALLY

If an ability targets one or more allies, you can use the ability to target only willing creatures who are friendly to you. Typically, you and any other player’s character who you target decide who counts as an ally, though the Director has the final say. You aren’t an eligible ally target for your own abilities unless those abilities also have “self” as a target.

### SELF

If an ability targets “self,” then you are a valid target for the ability.

### ALL

If an ability doesn’t provide a number of targets but instead says it applies to all creatures, objects, enemies, or allies, then all eligible targets are affected.

## ABILITY ROLL

If an ability requires a power roll, it has a “Power Roll” entry that tells you which characteristic to add to the 2d10 roll you make when you activate the ability.

Unlike power rolls made as tests, ability rolls always do something useful when you make them. You’re just rolling to see the impact of the ability, including damage and any effects based on the tier result of the power roll. For instance, the fury’s Brutal Slam ability is a melee attack that targets a creature within 1 square and has the following effects:

- **Tier 1 (11 or lower):** The attack deals 3 damage and pushes the target back 1 square.
- **Tier 2 (12–16):** The attack deals 8 damage and pushes the target back 2 squares.
- **Tier 3 (17 or more):** The attack deals 12 damage and pushes the target back 4 squares.

### ABILITIES WITH DAMAGE AND EFFECTS

Both attacks and area abilities deal damage and often have an additional effect on their target. The amount of damage and the strength of the effect are determined by the power roll.

To keep things quick and easy to read at the table, damage and effects are separated in a power roll entry with a semicolon, with effects abbreviated whenever possible. An effect determined by the power roll result always applies to the target unless otherwise specified. For instance, the Brutal Slam ability described above has the following power roll setup:

**Power Roll + Might:**
- 11 or lower: 3 damage; push 1
- 12–16: 8 damage; push 2
- 17+: 12 damage; push 4

Unless otherwise indicated, any effects that are determined by a power roll result occur after the power roll’s damage has been dealt to all targets.

If an ability has multiple effects, they resolve in the order in which they are presented.  
If an ability effect has a potency, it is listed in the ability.

#### "DURING THE MOVE"

Certain ability effects allow you to move and affect other creatures or objects during that move, such as the shadow’s Blade Dance ability. For such abilities, the move begins in the space you first leave when you begin the move, and ends in the last space you move into.

### CRITICAL HIT

When you make a power roll as part of an attack or action and the total of the roll is 19 or 20 before adding your characteristic (a natural 19 or natural 20), you score a critical hit. This allows you to immediately take an additional action after resolving the power roll, whether or not it’s your turn and even if you are dazed (see Conditions).

### ROLL AGAINST MULTIPLE CREATURES

When an ability targets multiple creatures, you make one power roll and apply the result to all the creatures you target. If you have edges or banes against some but not all of your targets, you might apply a different tier of result to individual targets.

For example, if you target three creatures with an attack ability and your result is 11, each of the targets should be affected by the tier 1 result of the ability. However, if you gain an edge on attacks against one of the targets to add 2 to the power roll, your result against that target is 13 and that target is affected by the tier 2 result of the ability.

## ABILITY RESISTANCE ROLLS

Some abilities that are used by the heroes’ foes have the target of the ability make a resistance roll instead of the creature using the ability making a power roll. These abilities have the Resistance keyword, indicating that the target rolls to see how well they can resist the ability. For instance, the dwarf trapper’s Steam Powered Snare ability forces a target to make an Intuition resistance roll:

- **Target Resists + Might:**
- 11 or lower: 4 damage; restrained (EoT)
- 12–16: 3 damage; slowed (EoT)
- 17+: No effect

Because a resistance roll measures how well a target shakes off an ability’s damage and effects, the higher the tier result of the roll, the weaker the ability’s damage and effects.

## EFFECT

Many abilities that require power rolls also have effect entries describing additional effects or rules for how the ability is used. If an ability doesn’t require a power roll, it has an effect entry that describes how it works.

## SPEND RESOURCE

Some abilities have a “Spend X [Heroic Resource]” entry. These are similar to effect entries, except they cost Heroic Resources to use. You must spend X of your Heroic Resource to activate the effect. If the entry reads “Spend [Heroic Resource]” with no number, then you can spend as much of your Heroic Resource as you like to increase the effect’s impact, as described in the entry’s details.

## STACKING UNIQUE EFFECTS

The unique effects of different abilities are combined if their durations and targets overlap. However, the effects of the same ability used multiple times don’t add together. Instead, the most impactful result—such as the highest bonus—from each use of the ability applies. The most recent ability applies for determining duration.  
Different effects that impose the same condition (see Conditions) don’t stack to impose the condition twice. For example, if a hero is targeted by numerous creatures whose abilities can halve a target’s recovery value, the hero’s recovery value is only halved once.

## ENDING EFFECTS

When a creature suffers a lasting effect, whatever ability, hazard, or other mechanic imposed the effect specifies how long the effect lasts. Unless otherwise noted, all effects and conditions (see Conditions) that are imposed on you during a combat encounter end when the encounter is over if you want them to.

### EOT

If an effect ends with “(EoT)” at the end of its description, a creature suffers the effect until the end of their next turn.

### SAVE ENDS

If an effect ends with “(save ends)” at the end of its description, then a creature suffering the effect can make a saving throw at the end of their turn to remove the effect.  
A saving throw represents your luck in shaking off an effect. You likely already got a chance to resist the effect using your characteristic score to resist a potency or make a resistance roll, so now it’s down to fate. To make a saving throw, roll a 1d10. On a result of 6 or higher, the effect ends. Otherwise, it continues.

## LINE OF EFFECT

To target a creature or object with an ability, including attacking the creature or object, you must have line of effect to that creature or object. If a solid object, such as a wall or pillar, completely blocks the creature from you, then you don’t have line of effect to them.  
If you’re not sure if you have line of effect to a creature, imagine drawing a straight line from any corner of the space you occupy on the map to any corner of a space the creature occupies. If you can do this with at least one corner connecting to another with no obstruction in between, you have line of effect to the creature.

At the Director’s discretion, flimsy or fragile obstructions such as a glass window or linen curtains don’t block line of effect, and might be automatically broken or torn by attacks made through them.  
If you want to create an area of effect in a specific area, you must have line of effect to at least one of the squares in that area. See Area Abilities.

## STRAIGHT LINE

Whenever your character moves or when you or another creature are force moved, that movement is typically in a straight line. Abilities that allow you to move or to forcibly move another creature often talk about moving straight toward or away from another creature or an object.  
Although a line of travel must be straight, it doesn’t have to travel a straight line of squares on the grid.

## CONDITIONS

Some abilities and other effects apply specific negative effects called conditions to a creature. The following conditions show up regularly in the game and are included on your character sheet.  
(Playtest note: They are not included on your character sheet yet.)

### BLEEDING

While bleeding, whenever you make a test using Might or Agility, make an attack, or use an action, maneuver, or a triggered action, you lose 1d6 Stamina after the test, action, maneuver, or triggered action is resolved. This Stamina loss can’t be prevented in any way.

### DAZED

While you are dazed, you can do only one thing on your turn: use a maneuver, use an action, or take a move action. You also can’t use triggered actions, free triggered actions, or free maneuvers.

### FRIGHTENED

If you are frightened, attacks you make against the source of your fear take a bane. If that source is a creature, their attacks against you gain an edge. You can’t willingly move closer to the source of your fear if you know the location of that source. If you gain the frightened condition from one source while already frightened by a different source, the new condition replaces the old one.

### GRABBED

While you are grabbed, your speed is 0, you can’t be force moved, you can’t use the Knockback maneuver, and you take a bane on attacks that don’t target the creature grabbing you. If the creature grabbing you moves, they bring you with them. If the creature’s size is equal to or less than yours, their speed is halved while they have you grabbed.  
The creature grabbing you can use a maneuver to move you into an unoccupied space adjacent to them.  
The creature grabbing you can end the grab at any time (no action required). You can also attempt to escape being grabbed using the Escape Grab maneuver (see Maneuvers in Combat). If you teleport or if the creature grabbing you is force moved to a space that isn’t adjacent to you, you are no longer grabbed.

### PRONE

While you are prone, you are flat on the ground, attacks you make take a bane, and melee attacks made against you gain an edge. You must crawl to move along the ground, which costs you 1 additional square of movement for every square you crawl. You can’t climb, jump, swim, or fly while prone. If you are climbing, flying, or jumping while you are knocked prone, you fall.  
While prone, you can stand up as a maneuver (see Maneuvers in Combat), unless the ability or effect that imposed the condition says otherwise. You can use a maneuver to make an adjacent prone creature stand up.

### RESTRAINED

While you are restrained, your speed is 0, you can’t use the Stand Up maneuver, and you can’t be force moved. Your attacks take a bane, attacks and damaging area powers against you gain an edge, and you have a bane on Might and Agility resistance rolls.  
If you teleport while restrained, the condition ends.

### SLOWED

While you are slowed, your speed is 2 unless it is already lower.

### TAUNTED

If you are taunted, you have a double bane on attacks that don’t include the creature who taunted you. If you gain the taunted condition from one creature while already taunted by a different creature, the new condition replaces the old one.

### WEAKENED

While you are weakened, all your ability rolls and tests (but not resistance rolls) take a bane.

# COMBAT

When the heroes face a problem that can be solved only with action, or when they come up against creatures who want to harm them, it’s time to throw down!

## SET THE MAP

When combat begins, the Director should position miniatures or tokens on a gridded map to represent the environment, the heroes, their foes, and any other creatures in the battle.

### HOW BIG IS A SQUARE?

It’s helpful to know how big a square is for abilities that heroes and NPCs can use outside of combat. A single square is 5 feet on all sides. The Director can change this measurement to 2 meters, 1 meter, or any other measurement you prefer, as long as that scale stays consistent throughout your game.

### SIZE AND SPACE

A creature’s size indicates how many squares they occupy during combat, which defines the creature’s space. If a creature’s size is 1, they occupy a space of 1 square. If a creature is larger than 1 square, their size equals the number of squares they take up in length, width, and height. For example, a horse has a size of 2, which means that during combat, they occupy a space that is 2 squares long, 2 squares wide, and 2 squares high. You could also think of that space as a cube that is 2 squares on all sides.

If a creature is a size 1, their size value includes the letter T, S, M, or L, abbreviations of tiny, small, medium, and large respectively. Since the minimal amount of space a creature can take up during combat is 1, this letter indicates the difference between tiny pixies, small polders, medium humans, and large hakaan, each of which occupy a space of 1 square in combat. These sizes in order from smallest to largest are 1T, 1S, 1M, and 1L.

Objects can also have a size rating. If an object has an O (an abbreviation for oblong) next to its size, it indicates that the object’s size isn’t the number of squares the object occupies, but rather it’s relative mass and weight to a creature of equivalent size. If an ability or feature allows you to interact with objects of a certain size, that rule includes all objects of that size, oblong or otherwise.

The **Creature and Object Sizes** table shows examples sizes of creatures and objects up to size 5, but there is no limit to what a creature or object’s size could be.

#### CREATURE AND OBJECT SIZES

| Size | Example Creature | Example Object  |
|------|------------------|-----------------|
| 1T   | Pixie            | Potato          |
| 1S   | Polder           | Heavy armor     |
| 1M   | Human            | Wardrobe        |
| 1L   | Hakaan           | Anvil           |
| 2    | Ogre             | Carriage        |
| 3    | Treant           | Sailboat        |
| 4    | Ancient Dragon   | Galley          |
| 5    | The Kraken       | Castle          |

### SIDES

Every combat encounter is a conflict between two sides. The heroes and any of their allies are one side, controlled by the players. Any creatures who oppose the heroes are the other side, controlled by the Director. All creatures who oppose the heroes are on the same side, even if those creatures also oppose each other. For example, if the heroes are battling a group of bandits when a kingfissure worm suddenly bursts into the fray to devour player characters and brigands alike, the worm is still on the side of the bandits for the purpose of the game’s combat rules.

#### NPC ALLIES

If an NPC ally fights alongside the heroes, the Director should give the players the ally’s stat block and let them control the NPC during combat. The Director has enough to worry about. As well, any missteps, mistakes, or triumphs the ally makes will be thanks to the decisions of the players and not the Director, which can make the outcome of the battle more satisfying for the players.

## COMBAT ROUND

Combat takes place over a series of rounds. During a round, each creature in the battle takes a turn. Once every creature has taken a turn, a new round begins.

### WHEN DOES COMBAT START?

Combat begins as soon as one creature intends to harm another. This means that even before the action happens, a hero can’t use heroic abilities without spending their resources on it, because combat has already begun!

### DETERMINE SURPRISE

When battle begins, the Director determines which creatures, if any, are caught off guard. Any creature who isn’t ready for combat at the start of an encounter is surprised until the end of the first round of combat. A surprised creature can’t take triggered or free triggered actions, attacks and damaging area powers rolled against them gain an edge, and they have a bane on resistance rolls.

For example, if the heroes sneak up unnoticed on a camp of marauders and attack, each marauder is surprised. Likewise, if the heroes fail to notice that all the cloaked figures in a tavern are actually brain-devouring zombies, then the heroes are surprised. If one of the heroes notices the disguised undead before the zombies attack but has no opportunity to warn their allies, that hero isn’t surprised but the rest of the characters are.

### DETERMINE WHO GOES FIRST

Sometimes figuring out who gets to take the first turn in combat is automatic. If all the creatures on one side are surprised, then a creature on the other side gets to go first. But if both sides have creatures who aren’t surprised, the Director or a player they choose rolls 1d10. On a result of 6 or greater, the heroes’ side acts first. Otherwise, the other side acts first.

### CREATURES TAKE TURNS

Whichever side goes first chooses a creature (or sometimes a group of creatures on the Director’s side) to act at the start of combat. Whenever the rules talk about a creature acting in combat, that creature gets to take their turn. When that turn is over, the other side chooses a creature to act. Play continues back and forth this way as each creature takes their turn.

Unless an ability or special rule allows them to do so, any creature who has taken a turn during a round can’t act again until a new round begins. To help track which creatures have already acted in the current round, each creature can have a coin, token, or card they flip over on the table, or some kind of flag they set on their virtual tabletop token, once they’ve taken a turn. That way, all the players know who has already acted and who hasn’t.

In many encounters, a point comes when one side has creatures who haven’t acted yet but all the creatures on the other side have. The creatures who have yet to act get to take their turns in any order they choose, without turns in between from the other side. For example, consider four heroes taking on six enemies. When all four heroes have taken their turns and four of the enemies have taken theirs, the two enemies who are left take their turns one after the other to end the round.

Once all creatures on both sides of a battle have acted, the round ends and a new one begins. The side whose members acted first during the starting round of combat acts first in all subsequent rounds.

#### DETERMINING WHO ACTS NEXT

When it comes to the heroes’ side, the choice of who should act next is intended to give players the opportunity to comment, strategize, and plan. Some tables, in some encounters, might find that the choice of who should act next isn’t obvious, leading to debate. That’s fine. Deliberating about what the group should do next is classic roleplaying.

In general, though, most groups find that it’s usually only one or two players in a given round who think it best if they act next. And as soon as those players explain why they want to act next and what they plan on doing, the issue is quickly resolved.

#### ARGUMENT TIMER

If the players do end up arguing in circles about what to do next, the Director can place a timer on the discussion. Usually, giving the players a warning and 30 seconds to decide who goes next does the trick. If they can’t choose by the end of that time, the Director chooses a hero to act.

#### ALTERNATIVE INITIATIVE

If planning everyone’s turn order isn’t fun for your group, you can leave it to the dice instead. At the start of combat, have each hero, enemy, and group of enemies make an Agility test, then record the results. When it’s time for someone on the heroes’ side to act, the hero with the highest result goes first. On the next hero turn, the hero with the second-highest result takes their turn, and so on. The Director-controlled creatures act the same way. Creatures on the same side should reroll tied Agility tests to determine who among the tied creatures acts before the others.

At the Director’s discretion, a hero can swap their turn in the initiative order with another willing hero at the start of a new round of combat. This allows certain abilities that interact with the core initiative system, such as the shadow’s *Hesitation is Weakness* ability, to better work with this alternative system.

#### ENEMIES ACT IN GROUPS

Director-controlled creatures act in groups, with information for building groups found in the Bestiary. When a group of enemies acts, the Director chooses a single creature or minion squad to take a turn. Once that turn is over, the Director chooses another creature in that group to take a turn, continuing until all members of the group have taken their turn.

### END OF ROUND

Once all creatures on both sides of a battle have acted, the round ends and a new round begins.

### TAKING A TURN

Each creature in combat—whether hero, adversary, or something in between—gets to take a move action, a maneuver, and an action on their turn. Each combatant can perform their maneuver and action in any order, and can break up the movement granted by their move action before, after, or between their maneuver and action however they like. You can also turn your action into a move action or a maneuver, so that your turn can alternatively consist of two move actions and a maneuver; or two maneuvers and a move action.

The **Movement** section breaks down how your move action works, while the **Maneuvers** and **Actions** sections break down the baseline maneuvers and actions your character can undertake. For any activities not specifically covered in those rules, such as cutting down a chandelier to drop on enemies, the Director decides whether such an activity is a maneuver or an action.

#### TRIGGERED ACTIONS AND FREE TRIGGERED ACTIONS

Your hero might have one or more unique triggered actions, each of which has a specified trigger that allows the action to be used. You can use one triggered action per round, either on your turn or another creature’s turn, but only when the action’s trigger occurs. For instance, a fury hero can use the *Relentless Toss* triggered action to force move a target, but only after an enemy has first tried to force move the fury or one of their allies.

A free triggered action follows the same rules as a triggered action, but it doesn’t count against your limit of one triggered action per round. For instance, a shadow hero can use their *Hesitation is Weakness* ability to take their turn in response to the trigger of another hero ending their turn. But because that ability is a free triggered action, the shadow can still use their *In All This Confusion* triggered action if attacked by an enemy.

If multiple triggered actions occur in response to the same trigger, any heroes and other player-controlled creatures taking a triggered action or a free triggered action decide among themselves which of those triggered actions are resolved first. Then the Director decides the same for creatures they control.

Any effect that prevents you from making triggered actions also prevents you from making free triggered actions.

#### FREE MANEUVERS

Boring stuff like opening an unlocked door, picking up an arrow from the ground, giving an object to an adjacent ally, or drawing a weapon doesn’t require a maneuver or an action. Rather, you can undertake such straightforward activities as free maneuvers on your turn. A free maneuver follows the same rules as a regular maneuver, but you can typically take as many free maneuvers as you like.

At the Director’s discretion, circumstances could make something that is typically boring more impactful and exciting. For instance, if you need to pick a magic arrow up off the ground during a violent earthquake, what would otherwise be a free maneuver could require a maneuver or an action to accomplish.

Likewise, the nature of an activity might make it too complicated for a free maneuver. For example, picking up the body of an unconscious talent ally to carry them to safety can probably be done as a free maneuver. But if your Might is lacking and you need to pick up a tactician ally decked out in the Shining Armor kit, the Director might determine that you need to use a regular maneuver to hoist their armored form over your shoulders.

Any effect that prevents you from making maneuvers also prevents you from making free maneuvers.

#### NO-ACTION ACTIVITIES

Free maneuvers cover most of the simple activities you might want to undertake on your turn. When it isn’t your turn, you can typically undertake even simpler activities requiring no action with the Director’s approval. For instance, shouting out a warning to an ally or dropping an item so another creature can pick it up require no action.

The Director can limit what kinds of no-action activities you can attempt when it isn’t your turn. For instance, shouting out a warning about an unseen foe to an ally on the ally’s or the foe’s turn requires no action. But the Director might stop you from giving that ally complex tactical advice, saying that doing so instead requires a free maneuver on your turn.

## MOVEMENT

During combat, creatures can employ multiple mechanics that allow them to move around the battlefield. The most common of those mechanics is to use the *Advance* or *Disengage* move action on your turn, but abilities granted by your class, equipment, ancestry, title, or other options might allow you other ways to move.

Your hero starts with a speed based on their ancestry—usually 5. This represents the maximum number of squares you can move when you take the move action or when another effect allows you to move. Your speed can be increased by your kit and other game options. All squares adjacent to your character cost 1 movement to move into. No, there is no Pythagorean theorem on the grid. It’s a game, don’t overthink it.

You can move freely through an allied creature’s space. You can move through an enemy creature’s space, but it counts as difficult terrain (see *Difficult Terrain*). You can’t stop moving in any other creature’s space, including making an attack or using an action or maneuver while in that space and then continuing your move.

### CAN’T EXCEED SPEED

A single move or other effect can never allow a creature to move more squares than their speed, unless the effect specifically states otherwise. For example, a creature with a speed of 5 might have that speed reduced to 2 by the slowed condition. If an ally then targets them with an effect that allows them to move up to 3 squares, the creature can move only 2 squares because that’s their current speed.

### CAN’T CUT CORNERS

A creature can’t move diagonally when doing so would allow them to cross the corner of a wall or other structure that fills the corner between your space and the space you are moving to. This rule applies only to moving by objects, not creatures.

### SHIFTING

Shifting is a careful form of movement that allows your hero to move safely by dangerous foes. Certain abilities, features, and other rules allow you to shift a specific number of squares, sometimes up to your speed. Whenever you shift, creatures can’t make opportunity attacks against you during your movement (see *Free Strikes*). You can’t shift into difficult or damaging terrain.

### MOVEMENT TYPES

Creatures in the game can use eight types of movement: walk, burrow, climb, swim, jump, crawl, fly, and teleport.

#### WALK

Walking is the most common movement type, whether it refers to ambulating on legs, slithering, or some other default method of movement. Unless specified otherwise, all creatures can move over solid horizontal ground without any problem.

#### BURROW

A creature with “burrow” in their speed entry can move through dirt vertically or horizontally, and either has the means to breathe while doing so or doesn’t require air to live. Such creatures can’t move through more solid ground, such as stone, unless their stat block says otherwise.

#### CLIMB OR SWIM

If a creature’s speed entry includes the word “climb,” they can climb across vertical and horizontal surfaces at full speed. Likewise, if a creature has “swim” in their speed entry, they can swim in liquid at full speed.

Creatures without those types of movement can still climb or swim when a rule allows them to move, but each square of climbing or swimming costs 2 squares of movement. If a surface is difficult to climb (for instance, a sheer cliff or ice-covered wall) or a liquid is hard to swim through (a raging river or whirlpool), the Director can call for a Might test. On a failure, a creature can’t climb or swim but wastes no movement in the attempt. The Director can also impose other consequences to failure, such as being caught in the spinning current of a whirlpool.

##### CLIMBING OTHER CREATURES

You can attempt to climb a creature whose size is greater than yours. If the creature is willing, you can climb them without any trouble. If the creature is unwilling, you make the following test:

**Power Roll + Might or Agility:**
- **11 or lower:** You fail to climb the creature, and they can make a free strike against you.
- **12–16:** You fail to climb the creature.
- **17+:** You climb the creature.

While you climb or ride a creature, you gain an edge to melee attacks against them. The creature can use a maneuver to attempt to knock you off. If you are knocked off a creature, you must make the following test:

**Power Roll + Might or Agility:**
- **11 or lower:** You fall off the creature into an unoccupied adjacent space of your choice, taking falling damage and landing prone as usual (see *Falling* in *Adventuring*).
- **12–16:** You slide down the creature into an unoccupied adjacent space of your choice and don’t land prone.
- **17+:** You continue to hold on to the creature.

If you are knocked prone while climbing or riding a creature, you fall and land prone in an adjacent space of your choice, taking damage as usual from the fall.

#### JUMP

When an effect allows you to move, you can long jump a number of squares up to your Might or Agility score (your choice; minimum 1 square) without a test as part of that movement. If you move at least 2 squares in a straight line immediately before your jump, you can long jump 1 additional square.

If you want to jump even farther than your initial jump allows, make a medium Might test. On a success, you jump 1 additional square, or 2 additional squares if you get a success with a reward.

The height of your jump is 1 square. If you move at least 2 squares in a straight line immediately before your jump, you can jump 1 square higher.

You can’t jump farther or higher than the distance of the effect that allows you to move. You can’t jump out of difficult or damaging terrain.

#### CRAWL

If you are prone (see *Conditions*), you can remain prone and crawl on the ground. Doing so costs you 1 additional square of movement for every square you crawl. If you intentionally want to crawl, you can fall prone as a free maneuver on your turn. While voluntarily prone, you can choose to stand as a free maneuver.

#### FLY

A creature who can fly can move through the air vertically or horizontally at full speed. Such creatures can also hover in midair. If a flying creature is knocked prone or has their speed reduced to 0, they fall (see *Falling*).

#### TELEPORT

When you teleport, you move from one space to another space instantaneously. The following rules apply to teleporting:
- Teleporting doesn’t provoke opportunity attacks.
- When you teleport, you bypass any obstacles between the space you leave and your destination space.
- The creature teleporting you must have line of effect from the space you leave and to your destination space.
- Your destination space can’t be occupied by another creature or object.
- You don’t spend your movement when you teleport. Instead, the effect that lets you teleport tells you how far you can teleport.
- If you teleport while prone, you can be standing when you reach your destination space provided you are able to stand. If another creature teleports you, it is up to them if you remain prone or stand, provided you are able.
- If you teleport while affected by the grabbed or restrained conditions, those conditions end for you.

### DIFFICULT TERRAIN

Areas of thick underbrush, rubble, spiderwebs, or other obstacles to movement create difficult terrain. It costs 1 additional square of movement to enter a square of difficult terrain.

### DAMAGING TERRAIN

Areas of acid, fire, sharp rocks, lava, or any other terrain that causes damage to creatures who are in it is damaging terrain. The amount of damage caused by hazardous terrain is listed in the terrain’s description or in the description of the effect that creates the terrain.

### HIGH GROUND

When you make an attack against a creature or object while occupying a space that is fully above the space the target takes up, with the bottom of your space higher than the top of the target’s space, you gain an edge on the power roll against that target. You must be standing, swimming, or flying to gain this benefit, or jumping unless the Director deems otherwise. You don’t get the benefit while climbing unless your speed has the *Climb* keyword.

### FORCED MOVEMENT

Some actions and maneuvers allow you to push, pull, or slide another creature a specific distance across the battlefield. Collectively, these types of movement are called forced movement.

- **Push X:** You move the target up to X squares away from you in a straight line, without moving them vertically.
- **Pull X:** You move the target up to X squares toward you in a straight line, without moving them vertically. Each square you move the creature must bring them closer to you.
- **Slide X:** You move the target up to X squares in any direction, except for vertically.

When you force move a target, you can always move that target fewer squares than the number indicated. For example, when the conduit gets a tier 3 “push 3” result with their *Call the Thunder Down* ability, they can push targets any distance up to 3 squares, including choosing to not move certain targets at all.

Forced movement ignores difficult terrain and never provokes opportunity attacks. When you force move a target into damaging terrain or into terrain that produces an effect, they are affected as if they had moved into it willingly.

#### VERTICAL

If a forced movement effect has the word “vertical” in front of it, then the forced movement can move a target up or down in addition to horizontally. For example, if a forced movement effect says “vertical push 5,” then the creature targeted by the effect can be pushed up to 5 squares in any direction, as long as the forced movement is a straight line.

If a creature who can’t fly is left in midair at the end of a vertical forced move, they fall.

Though you can’t push, pull, or slide a creature unless that forced movement specifies “vertical,” you can move them along a physical slope, such as a hill or staircase. For a creature to be force moved along a slope, each square of the slope can be no more than 1 square higher or lower than the previous square.

#### BIG VS LITTLE

When a larger creature force moves a smaller creature with a melee weapon ability, the force move distance is increased by 1. If a smaller creature force moves a larger creature with a melee weapon ability, the force move distance does not change.

#### SLAMMING INTO CREATURES

When you force move a creature into another creature, the movement ends and both creatures take 1 damage for each square remaining in the first creature’s forced movement. You can also force move an object into a creature. The object’s movement ends, and the creature takes 1 damage for each square remaining in the object’s forced movement.

It is possible to move a creature or object of a larger size into several creatures of a smaller size at the same time. When this happens, all creatures in the collision take damage once.

If a creature is killed by damage from an attack or effect that force moves them, the second creature still takes damage unless the Director deems otherwise.

You can force move another creature into yourself with a pull or a slide.

#### TRACKING OBJECT FORCED-MOVEMENT DAMAGE

At the Director’s discretion, mundane objects that are force moved into creatures or other objects take damage as if they were creatures. Sturdy objects can take damage as follows:
- For each square a wood object occupies, it can take 3 damage before it is destroyed.
- For each square a stone object occupies, it can take 6 damage before it is destroyed.
- For each square a metal object occupies, it can take 9 damage before it is destroyed.

More fragile objects are destroyed after taking any damage.

#### SLAMMING INTO OBJECTS

When you force move a creature into a stationary object that is their size or larger and the object doesn’t break (see below), the movement ends and the creature takes 2 damage plus 1 damage for each square remaining in their forced movement.

If you force move a creature downward into an object that doesn’t break (including the ground), they also take falling damage.

#### HURLING THROUGH OBJECTS

When you move a creature into a mundane object, the object can break depending on how many squares of forced movement remain:
- It costs 1 remaining square of forced movement to destroy 1 square of glass. The creature moved takes 1 damage.
- It costs 3 remaining squares of forced movement to destroy 1 square of wood. The creature moved takes 3 damage.
- It costs 6 remaining squares of forced movement to destroy 1 square of stone. The creature moved takes 6 damage.
- It costs 9 remaining squares of forced movement to destroy 1 square of metal. The creature moved takes 9 damage.

If any forced movement remains after the object is destroyed, you can continue to move the creature who destroyed the object.

#### FORCED INTO A FALL

If you can’t fly and are force moved across an open space that would cause you to fall, such as being pushed over the edge of a cliff, you continue moving the total distance you were moved first. If you are still in a position to fall when your move ends, you fall.

#### FOR THE DIRECTOR: USE TACTICAL MAPS

This is a tactical game. To get the most out of the rules for movement, difficult terrain, and falling, you should use encounter maps with interesting environmental features. You might have ledges, pits of acid, walls of fire, mechanical traps, columns, giant webs, magical hazards, and the like for creatures to be thrown into, thrown off of, or thrown through. You’ll want most of your battles to take place in environments with plenty of space to move around, avoiding a lot of long corridors that are 1 square wide.

#### STABILITY

Each creature has a stability that allows them to resist forced movement. When a creature is forced moved, they can reduce the movement up to a number of squares equal to their stability. Heroes start with a stability of 0 that can be increased through kit and ancestry options.

## MOVE ACTIONS

A move action allows you to move around the battlefield. Sometimes you’ll already be exactly where you want to be and not need to use a move action on your turn. That’s okay! The decision to not move is just as tactical as the decision to move.

### ADVANCE

When you take the *Advance* move action, you can move a number of squares up to your speed. You can break up this movement granted with your maneuver and action however you wish.

### DISENGAGE

When you take the *Disengage* move action, you can shift 1 square. Some class features, kits, or other rules let you shift more than 1 square when you take this move action. If they do, you can break up the movement granted by this move action with your maneuver and action however you wish.

## MANEUVERS

A maneuver typically involves less focus and exertion than an action. It can be an opportunity to move other creatures, drink a potion, or undertake similar activities.

Sometimes you might not have anything you can do with your maneuver. That’s totally fine! Often, the best thing to do on your turn is take an action and move on.

### AID ATTACK

Choose an enemy adjacent to you. The next attack an ally makes against that creature before the start of your next turn has an edge.

### ESCAPE GRAB

While you are grabbed by another creature (see *Grab* below), you can attempt to escape by making a resistance roll. You take a bane on the roll if the creature’s size is larger than yours.

**Power Roll + Might or Agility:**
- **11 or lower:** You fail to escape the grab.
- **12–16:** You can escape the grab, but if you do, the creature grabbing you can make a melee free strike against you before you are no longer grabbed.
- **17+:** You are no longer grabbed.

### GRAB

You attempt to grab a creature using the following ability:

#### GRAB

- **Keywords:** Melee  
- **Type:** Maneuver  
- **Distance:** Melee 1  
- **Target:** 1 creature no more than 1 size larger than you  

**Power Roll + Might:**
- **11 or lower:** No effect
- **12–16:** You can grab the target, but if you do, they can make a melee free strike against you right before they become grabbed by you.
- **17+:** The target is grabbed by you.


**Effect:** You gain an edge on the power roll if the creature’s size is smaller than yours. You can grab only one creature at a time this way.

### HIDE

Using the *Hide* maneuver, you attempt to hide from other creatures who aren’t observing you while you have cover or concealment (see *Hide and Sneak*).

### KNOCKBACK

You attempt to shove an adjacent creature using the following ability:

#### KNOCKBACK

- **Keywords:** Melee, Weapon  
- **Type:** Maneuver  
- **Distance:** Melee 1  
- **Target:** 1 creature no more than 1 size larger than you  

**Power Roll + Might:**
- **11 or lower:** Push 1
- **12–16:** Push 2
- **17+:** Push 3


**Effect:** You gain an edge on the power roll if the creature’s size is smaller than yours.

### MAKE OR ASSIST A TEST

Many tests are maneuvers if made in combat. Searching a chest with a *Reason* test, picking a door’s lock with an *Agility* test, or lifting a portcullis with a *Might* test would all be maneuvers. Assisting a test is also a maneuver in combat.

Complex or time-consuming tests might require an action if made in combat—or could take so long that they can’t be made during combat at all. Other tests that take no time at all, such as a *Reason* test to recall lore about mummies, are usually free maneuvers in combat. The Director has the final say regarding which tests can be made as maneuvers.

### SEARCH FOR HIDDEN CREATURES

You can use this maneuver to attempt to search for creatures hidden from you (see *Hide and Sneak*).

### STAND UP

You can use this maneuver to stand up if you are prone, ending that condition. Alternatively, you can use this maneuver to make an adjacent prone creature stand up.

### USE CONSUMABLE

Unless otherwise noted in a treasure’s description, you can use a consumable treasure (see *Treasures*), such as a potion, with this maneuver. You can use this maneuver to administer a potion or other consumable that benefits the user to a willing, adjacent creature instead of yourself.

## ACTIONS

When you take an action on your turn, you most often do so to use a unique ability defined on your character sheet (see *Abilities*). These abilities are the most unique, flavorful, and impactful things you can do with your action. You can also use your action to catch your breath, help another creature regain Stamina, charge into battle, defend yourself, or make a free strike.

### CATCH BREATH

By using the *Catch Breath* action, you spend a Recovery and heal an amount equal to your recovery value. In addition, you also gain the benefit of the *Defend* action. If you are dying (see *Dying and Death* in *Stamina*), you can’t take the *Catch Breath* action, but other creatures can help you spend recoveries.

### CHARGE

When you take the *Charge* action, you move up to your speed in a straight line without shifting, then make a melee free strike (see *Free Strikes*) against a creature when you end your move. You can’t move through difficult terrain as part of your movement with this action. You can’t climb, fly, or swim as part of this action unless you have that type of movement as a keyword in your speed.

### DEFEND

When you take the *Defend* action, you have **advantage** until the end of your next turn. You gain no benefit from this action while another creature is taunted by you (see *Conditions*).

### FREE STRIKE

You can use this action to make a free strike (see *Free Strikes*). Most of the time, you’ll want to use the more impactful actions found on your character sheet, just as the Director will use the actions in a creature’s stat block, but free strikes are always available for when all else fails. For instance, a fury who has no other options for ranged attacks might use the *Ranged Weapon Free Strike* attack with an improvised weapon when battling a flying creature.

### HEAL

You use your action to employ medicine or inspiring words to make an adjacent creature feel better and stay in the fight. The creature can spend a Recovery to regain Stamina, or can make a resistance roll against a “(resistance ends)” effect they are suffering.

## FREE STRIKES

Every creature can use a free strike ability as an action on their turn, though doing so typically isn’t the most effective choice. Most of the time, you’ll use free strikes when the rules call for it. Specific rules let you use free strikes as part of an action that allows you to also do something else impactful, such as how the *Charge* action lets you move and use a melee free strike in one action (see *Charge* above).

Many rules and abilities allow heroes to make free strikes when it isn’t their turn, such as the tactician’s *Overwatch* ability. As well, all characters can make an opportunity attack free strike.

### IN PLACE OF SIGNATURE OR HEROIC

Some abilities, like the tactician’s *Seize the Opening* ability, allow one creature to target another and let them use a signature or heroic action. Unless otherwise stated, you can always use a free strike in place of the action granted.

### OPPORTUNITY ATTACKS

Whenever a creature adjacent to you moves to a space that isn’t adjacent to you without shifting, you can take advantage of their movement to quickly make a melee free strike against them as a free triggered action. This is called an opportunity attack.

If you have a bane or double bane on the power roll against the creature, you can’t make the free strike.

### STANDARD FREE STRIKES

Every hero has two standard free strike abilities available to them. Your class might give you additional free strike options, and your kit can improve the standard options (see *Kits*).

A melee weapon free strike is a melee attack made with an unarmed strike or an improvised weapon. A ranged weapon free strike is a ranged attack made with an improvised weapon. At the Director’s discretion, the damage type of an improvised weapon can change based on the object used. For example, if you use a burning torch as an improvised weapon, it could deal fire damage.

#### MELEE WEAPON FREE STRIKE

- **Keywords:** Attack, Melee, Weapon  
- **Type:** Action  
- **Distance:** Melee 1  
- **Target:** 1 creature or object  

**Power Roll + Might or Agility:**
- **11 or lower:** 2 damage
- **12–16:** 5 damage
- **17+:** 7 damage

#### RANGED WEAPON FREE STRIKE

- **Keywords:** Attack, Ranged, Weapon  
- **Type:** Action  
- **Distance:** Ranged 5  
- **Target:** 1 creature or object  

**Power Roll + Might or Agility:**
- **11 or lower:** 2 damage
- **12–16:** 4 damage
- **17+:** 6 damage

## FLANKING

When you and at least one ally are adjacent to the same enemy and on completely opposite sides of the enemy, you are flanking that enemy. While flanking an enemy, you gain an edge on melee attacks against them.

If you’re unsure whether your hero and an ally are flanking a foe, imagine a line extending from the center of your space to your ally’s space. If that line passes through opposite sides or corners of the enemy’s space, then you and your ally are flanking the enemy.

You must have line of effect to the enemy and be able to take triggered actions in order to gain or grant the flanking benefit.

## COVER

When you have line of effect to a creature or object but that target has at least half their form blocked by a solid obstruction such as a tree, wall, or overturned table, the target has cover. You take a bane on attacks and area abilities that deal damage against creatures or objects that have cover from you.

## CONCEALMENT

Darkness, fog, invisibility magic, and any other effect that fully obscures a creature but doesn’t protect their body grants that creature concealment. You can target a creature who has concealment with attacks, provided they aren’t hidden (see *Hide and Sneak* in *Adventuring*). However, attacks against such creatures take a bane. Even if you have line of effect to a creature, they have concealment from you if you can’t see them.

### INVISIBLE CREATURES

Invisible creatures always have concealment from other creatures. If an invisible creature isn’t hidden, they can still be targeted with abilities, though attacks against them take a bane. The test made to find a hidden creature who is invisible takes a bane.

## DAMAGE

Whenever you take damage, you reduce your Stamina by an amount equal to the damage taken.

### SURGES AND SHIELDS

In the heat of battle, a blessing from a conduit, good advice barked out by a tactician, or a ballad sung by the troubadour can empower allies to deal more damage with their abilities and avoid incoming harm from their wicked foes. Surges, represented by the *surge* icon, are special bonuses that increase a creature’s damage output. Shields, represented by the *shield* icon ((SHIELD)), are special bonuses that decrease damage being dealt to a creature.

#### USING SURGES

Each (SURGE) has a value equal to your highest characteristic score.

Many effects that grant you one or more (SURGE) specify that the (SURGE) takes effect when you deal damage with an ability. If you have a (SURGE) that works this way, you deal additional damage equal to your highest characteristic score for each (SURGE) you have when you use this ability. Unless the effect states otherwise, the damage dealt by the (SURGE) is the same type and uses the same keywords as the ability. If the ability deals more than one damage type, you decide which of the ability’s damage types the (SURGE) uses.

Some abilities and effects use (SURGE) to represent all of the damage they deal (as opposed to using them for additional damage). In this case, you deal damage equal to your highest characteristic score for each (SURGE) you have. Unless specified otherwise, this damage is untyped.

If you are dealing damage with a (SURGE) granted to you by another creature’s ability, the (SURGE) value equals your highest characteristic score because you are the one dealing damage. It does not equal the other creature’s highest characteristic score.

#### USING SHIELDS

Each (SHIELD) has a value equal to your highest characteristic score.

Many abilities and effects grant you one or more (SHIELD) against a single, specific instance of damage, such as an attack, or in specific circumstances, such as while standing in a conduit’s protective aura. In other cases, you may gain a (SHIELD) for a specific duration, such as until the end of your next turn, and these are counted against every instance of damage you take until the duration runs out.

When you take damage, you reduce the damage by an amount equal to your highest characteristic score for every (SHIELD) that applies to it.

#### UP TO THREE OF EACH

Surges and shields can be stacked to boost their effectiveness. A single source of damage can have up to three surges ((SURGE)(SURGE)(SURGE)) and three shields ((SHIELD)(SHIELD)(SHIELD)) applied. A hero can only get so much power from their circumstances! This rule also prevents you from doing a lot of counting at the table. Once you get to three, you can stop.

### DAMAGE TYPES

Typical damage, such as that caused by weapons, falling, traps, and monstrous claws, has no type associated with it. That’s because for most creatures, there’s no difference in the amount of harm caused by being run through with a pike, dropped from a height onto a stone floor, slashed by a pendulum scythe, or skewered on a minotaur’s horns.

However, when it comes to elemental and magical damage sources, some creatures might have an immunity or weakness to that damage. As such, attacks and effects note when they deal any of the following damage types: acid, cold, corruption, fire, holy, lightning, poison, psychic, or sonic.

#### DAMAGE IMMUNITY

Damage immunity means that a creature can ignore some or all of the damage they would usually take from certain attacks or effects.

Damage immunity might have a damage type associated with it, expressed as “[damage type] immunity.” Alternatively, damage immunity might apply to any powers that deal damage with the *Weapon*, *Magic*, or *Psionic* keyword. Damage immunity of either kind often has a value associated with it, so that one creature’s stat block notes “fire immunity 5,” while another creature has “Magic immunity 5.”

Whenever a target with damage immunity takes damage of the indicated type or from a power with the indicated keyword, they reduce the damage by the value of the immunity (to a minimum of 0 damage). If the value of the immunity is “all,” then the target takes no damage of the indicated type or from those powers.

Certain creatures also have forced move damage immunity. Whenever they take damage from forced movement, that damage is reduced by a number equal to their immunity.

Damage immunity should be the last thing applied when calculating damage. For instance, if your hero has Weapon immunity 5 and takes 8 damage from a weapon attack, you would take 3 damage. If a tactician first halved the damage you take with the *Parry* triggered action, you would take 4 damage from the attack before immunity is applied, with immunity then reducing the damage to 0.

If multiple damage immunities apply to a source of damage, only the immunity with the highest value applies.

#### DAMAGE WEAKNESS

Damage weakness works like damage immunity, except that creatures take extra damage whenever they take damage of the indicated type, or from a source with the indicated keyword. For instance, if a creature has fire weakness 5 and is dealt 10 fire damage, they take 15 fire damage instead.

A creature who has “damage weakness X” with no specific type or keyword indicated has weakness of the indicated amount when they take damage of any type.

If you have both damage immunity and weakness applied to a source of damage, apply both. First apply weakness, then immunities.

## STAMINA

Your hero’s survivability is represented by your Stamina. Think of Stamina as a combination of a creature’s physical vitality and their overall energy for dodging and resisting incoming blows, spells, and other violence. It’s not that every instance of damage deals a bleeding wound to you, but that each one chips away at your ability to fight effectively. An attack might make you sweat as you leap back to avoid an arrow, while another might just graze your elbow with a dagger nick, leaving a dull, distracting pain. Eventually, this draining of energy leaves you open for bigger blows that can truly harm your body—or possibly kill you.

After any damage you take is reduced by damage immunity or other effects, your Stamina is reduced by an amount equal to the remaining damage. Some effects can also reduce your Stamina maximum, limiting the amount of Stamina you can regain.

### RECOVERIES AND RECOVERY VALUE

Each hero has a number of Recoveries determined by their class. A hero also has a recovery value that equals one-third of their Stamina, rounded down. When you use the *Catch Breath* action (see *Actions*), you spend a Recovery and regain Stamina equal to your recovery value. Outside of combat, you can spend as many Recoveries as you have remaining. Some abilities, items, and other effects allow you to spend a Recovery to regain Stamina equal to your recovery value plus a little extra (as described by the effect), or to regain Stamina without spending a Recovery.

### WINDED

Your winded value equals half your Stamina maximum. When your Stamina is equal to or less than your winded value, you are winded. Although being winded has no effects on its own, certain ancestry, class, item, and title abilities affect winded creatures.

You can tell when other creatures are winded and vice versa.

### DYING AND DEATH

When your Stamina is 0 or lower, you are dying. While dying, you can’t take the *Catch Breath* action in combat, you are bleeding, and this condition can’t be removed in any way until you are no longer dying. While you are dying, your allies can help you spend Recoveries in combat, and you can spend Recoveries out of combat as usual.

While your Stamina is lower than 0, if it reaches the negative of your winded value, you die. When you die, you can’t be brought back to life without the use of a special powerful item such as a *Scroll of Resurrection*.

### DIRECTOR-CONTROLLED CREATURES

Director-controlled creatures die when their Stamina drops to 0.

#### NO RECOVERIES

Director-controlled creatures don’t have Recoveries or a recovery value. Any such creatures who regain Stamina during a battle do so via a special item or an ability in their stat block. However, there are times when a hero might wish to use an ability that allows another creature to spend a Recovery or to regain Stamina equal to their recovery value on an injured NPC. In such cases, a Director-controlled creature regains Stamina equal to one-third their Stamina maximum.

### KNOCKING CREATURES OUT

If you damage a creature with an attack that would kill them, you can choose to instead knock them unconscious. If a creature takes damage while unconscious in this way, they die.

Director-controlled creatures remain unconscious for 1 hour if no one does anything to end that condition. They then gain 1 Stamina and their unconsciousness ends. Heroes remain unconscious for 1 hour if no one does anything to end that condition. After 1 hour, they can spend a Recovery and end their unconsciousness. If the hero has no Recoveries left, they can’t wake up until they complete a respite.

#### UNCONSCIOUS

While you are unconscious, you can’t take actions, maneuvers, triggered actions, free triggered actions, or free maneuvers; your speed is 0; you are unaware of your surroundings; and you are prone. Attacks against you have a double edge. If you wake up from being unconscious, you can stand up from prone as a free maneuver.

### TEMPORARY STAMINA

Some abilities, treasures, and other effects grant a creature temporary Stamina. Temporary Stamina shouldn’t be included in a creature’s Stamina total when figuring out a creature’s recovery value or winded value. If you have temporary Stamina while winded, dying, or dead, the temporary Stamina doesn’t change those states.

Whenever you take damage while you have temporary Stamina, the temporary Stamina decreases first, and any leftover damage is applied to your Stamina as usual. For instance, if you have 10 temporary Stamina and take 16 damage, you lose the temporary Stamina and then lose another 6 Stamina.

There is no maximum to how much temporary Stamina you can have. Regaining Stamina can’t restore temporary Stamina. If you have temporary Stamina and then gain more temporary Stamina, you get whichever amount of temporary Stamina is greater, rather than adding the two pools together. For instance, if an ability grants you 10 temporary Stamina when you already have 5, you have 10 temporary Stamina, not 15.

Unless otherwise indicated, temporary Stamina disappears when you finish a *Respite*.

### OBJECT STAMINA

Mundane objects in the game have Stamina based on the material they’re made of. When an object’s Stamina is reduced to 0, the object is destroyed. Objects have damage immunity to poison and psychic damage. Objects made of common materials have Stamina as follows:
- A size 1 object or 1 square of a larger object made of glass has 1 Stamina.
- A size 1 object or 1 square of a larger object made of wood has 3 Stamina.
- A size 1 object or 1 square of a larger object made of stone has 6 Stamina.
- A size 1 object or 1 square of a larger object made of metal has 9 Stamina.

The Director can decide that a well-made or poorly made object has more or less Stamina. Destroying a supernatural object often (but not always) requires a specific quest, such as throwing a magic ring back into the volcano where it was forged.

## UNDERWATER COMBAT

If a creature is fully submerged in water, they have fire immunity 5 and lightning weakness 5. If their speed doesn’t have the *Swim* keyword, all their power rolls take a bane.

## MOUNTED COMBAT

A willing allied creature with the *Mount* role (see *Creature Roles* in the *Bestiary*) can serve as your mount as long as their size is greater than yours. You can climb onto your mount freely (see *Climbing Other Creatures*). You determine which space you occupy. You can then use your move action on your turn to allow your mount to take a move action instead of you. The mount can benefit from this extra move action only once per round.

If a creature riding a mount is force moved, they are knocked off the mount and must make a test to determine how they land (see *Climbing Other Creatures*). If a mount is force moved, they carry any riders with them.

If your mount dies, they fall prone and you fall off them and land prone in the closest unoccupied space of your choice.

## END OF COMBAT

At the end of combat, the Director determines if the heroes each gain a Victory (see *Victories*). Any effect or condition affecting you that you suffered during combat (except for being winded, unconscious, or dying) ends if you want it to.

### HOW COMBAT ENDS

The Director determines when a combat encounter is over. While some battles—especially showdowns with important villains—can be about a fight to the bitter end, many other encounters can become a tedious slog if the heroes need to fight until every last enemy’s Stamina is reduced to 0.

To avoid a battle dragging, the Director can set objectives when they build the encounter. Once the heroes achieve those objectives, or if it becomes clear that they can win the fight with minimal effort, the Director can end the encounter. They might do so by calling “Cut!” like a film director or using some other phrase or indicator.

When the Director ends combat this way, the players typically choose how the battle ends by narrating a dramatic finish. In rarer cases when the heroes achieve a major objective that sets off a story-defining event, the Director narrates the end of the battle with a positive outcome for the players, called an *event ending*.

#### FLEEING FOES

If you’ve played an RPG like this one before, odds are you’ve had an encounter where you didn’t chase down every last fleeing foe—and then one such foe grabbed another bunch of evil buddies and came back to ambush you. It takes only one experience like this to create players who promise, “No survivors. No mercy!” whenever foes break ranks. Chasing down every last foe can be fun once in a while, but it can easily turn a tactical encounter into a slog.

Luckily, this is a heroic game. Although the Director can surprise the players with dramatic reveals and twisty-turny stories, “Gotcha!” moments that make players suspicious of every fleeing bandit shouldn’t be part of those stories. If a bandit is fleeing an encounter, they’re running away to rethink their life. If they’re going for help, the players should get some sense of that—for example, the bandit screaming at the top of their lungs as they run toward their leader’s tent. That way, the players can process what’s happening and will understand that stopping that fleeing bandit is part of the challenge of the encounter.

### OBJECTIVE ENDINGS

While planning a combat encounter, the Director can set one or more objectives the heroes can achieve to end the encounter without dropping every last foe. Some broad categories of objectives are described in this section, but the Director should feel free to create their own. As well, Directors can always end combat anytime it becomes clear that the heroes are going to win an encounter with minimal effort, even if they haven’t achieved all the objectives.

#### DIMINISH NUMBERS

Sometimes the heroes simply defeat enough of their enemies that the rest don’t stand a chance. For example, the Director might decide that an encounter ends when the heroes have no nonminion enemies remaining, when the heroes outnumber their foes, or when the number of remaining enemies is half of what it was at the start of the encounter.

The Director can also use the following guideline to determine when it’s time to call “Cut!” if one of the encounter’s objectives is for the heroes to diminish their foes. At the end of a round of combat with no living solo or boss creatures (see the *Bestiary*), the Director should add up the levels of all the enemies who oppose the heroes. Minions count as 1/5 of their listed level for this purpose. Then the Director adds the levels of all the remaining heroes who aren’t dying together. If the combined level of the heroes is twice or more than the combined level of their enemies, the Director should end combat.

#### DEFEAT SPECIFIC FOE

A combat encounter might include one or more of the heroes’ enemies commanding the rest, such as a hobgoblin captain leading a group of mercenaries, or one or more particularly powerful foes among a group of weaker ones, such as a pair of tusker demons in a gnoll war band. Because these enemies are the stars of the encounter, if only weak foes are left once the stars are gone, the battle loses its challenge and it’s time to wrap it up. Under such circumstances, the Director can end the combat once those special creatures are defeated.

#### GET THE THING!

Classic heroic fantasy is full of important objects that the heroes must protect from the forces of evil: magic rings, royal birth certificates, dragon eggs, and the like. Heroes often find themselves at violent odds with their enemies as they race to collect a valuable or important item from a guarded temple or castle, or when they need to steal the item from a group of enemies already in possession of it.

Objectives in this category work well when paired with other objectives. For instance, the heroes must steal a ledger containing a record of criminal activity from an overmind and her lackeys. However, even if they obtain the ledger, the battle won’t be over until they also defeat the overmind, who won’t let the book go without a fight!

#### DESTROY THE THING!

Combat doesn’t always have to be about destroying your enemies. Sometimes it’s about destroying their stuff! Burning a pirate captain’s vessel, closing a portal to the Abyssal Wasteland before it lets in an army of demons, or shutting down a massive kobold trap made of spinning blades could so hamper the heroes’ foes that the battle is no longer worth fighting once the damage is done.

#### SAVE ANOTHER

No one earns the mantle of hero without saving a few lives. If the heroes rescue a powerful ally from the clutches of their foes during combat, the added strength of that ally might be enough to make the remainder of the encounter trivial. When you and your allies save a griffon from a crew of poachers, the hunters become the … well, you know the rest.

#### HOLD THEM OFF

Sometimes the heroes just need to buy time. They might need to battle a conquering tyrant’s army to allow innocent villagers time to escape. They might need to hold off wave after wave of zombies while a group of priests completes a ritual to lay the undead to rest for good. To achieve this objective, the heroes need to stay alive and protect a particular position for a number of rounds determined by the Director.

#### STOP THE ACTION

Sometimes combat is complicated by the fact that the heroes need to stop the villainous actions of their foes. It’s not enough to simply defeat the warriors in a cult. The heroes must also stop the zealots’ archdevil-summoning ritual! Or it might be that the heroes need to interrupt a wedding and make sure an evil mage doesn’t marry the heir to the throne. Despite combat, the mage forces the ceremony to continue! Objectives in this category often have a timer associated with them. If the heroes don’t achieve the objective in a certain number of rounds, the conditions of the battle should change. For instance, if the cultists summon the archdevil, defeating the devil suddenly becomes the heroes’ new objective!

#### MAKING OBJECTIVES KNOWN

Encounters work best if the players have a good idea of what they are working toward. The Director doesn’t need to state objectives outright to the players at the start of the battle, though they can if they like. Not all groups want to start combat with the Director saying, “Your objectives are to break the eldritch machine and destroy the vampire lord,” because doing so might take the players out of the game’s narrative.

In many combat encounters, the objectives are obvious. For instance, in a battle against a necromancer controlling a horde of undead minions, the players probably don’t need to be told that defeating the necromancer ends the encounter when that’s an easy assumption. In an encounter against cultists performing a world-ending ritual, the heroes can guess that stopping the ritual is one of their objectives. In fact, they probably went on this adventure to specifically achieve that objective. They’re not there for karaoke at the end of existence!

Not all objectives are so clear, however. In a battle against a goblin cursespitter, a kobold legionary, and three human knaves guarding the entrance to a bandit fortress, it can be difficult to know what the exact objective of the encounter is, beyond “Defeat them all!” The objective could be to simply diminish the enemy forces, but it could also be the case that the cursespitter leads the group, so that defeating the goblin causes the other forces to fall apart. In such a case, it helps if the Director provides at least a hint of that setup at the start of the battle. The cursespitter could clearly issue orders and even call the other bandits cowards, demanding that they not “run away like last time!”

#### COMPLETE THE ACTION

The opposite of “Stop the Action,” this objective ending sees the characters charged with initiating an event, performing a ritual, and so forth. For instance, if the heroes are attempting to launch an airship while repelling a time raider boarding party, the encounter could be over the moment the heroes manage to activate the vessel and take off with just a few time raiders actually aboard.

#### OBJECTIVES AND ENCOUNTER DIFFICULTY

Objectives can modify an encounter’s difficulty by extending the scope of success beyond grinding every enemy down to 0 Stamina. When the heroes are challenged to defeat specific foes or take other actions while trying not to die, those objectives can make an encounter easier than the encounter rules would usually dictate. As such, the Director should feel free to turn up the heat a bit.

> **Playtest note:** More specific advice on this topic is to come as the encounter-building system is developed.

### DRAMATIC FINISH

If the heroes are able to end a fight with a dramatic finish, the Director assigns each hero one or more of their remaining enemies, then asks that hero’s player to describe how the hero neutralizes that enemy. The hero might deliver a killing blow, knock their foe out, or let the enemy flee with their tail between their legs (literally or figuratively). If the fight has more heroes than Director-controlled enemies, the Director can assign more than one hero to an enemy, then ask the players how their characters work together to bring that enemy down. After everyone gives a description, the battle ends.

### EVENT ENDING

If the Director calls the end of combat when a specific objective in an encounter is achieved, the event ending creates a big narrative finish. The Director can pick a narrative trigger for an event ending before an encounter begins, or can come up with one on the fly if that makes more sense.

Event endings can cover big scenarios such as the characters destroying a dam to unleash a river upon their enemies, or completing a ritual that causes all the demons they’ve been battling to be sent back to the Abyssal Wasteland, accompanied by visual details. For example, if the heroes are battling a necromancer who controls a horde of zombies, the undead might all crumble to dust when the necromancer is defeated. If the heroes destroy an eldritch machine sapping the land of its natural energy, the shockwave from the device’s destruction could vaporize the cultists attempting to protect it.

#### LAST-STAND STAMINA

For players who like to always duke it out to the bitter end rather than ending combat early, the Director can use this optional rule to help bring things to a quicker conclusion. When it’s clear that the heroes are going to win a battle, their enemies are overcome with fear, despair, and panic. In this weakened state, each enemy’s Stamina drops to 1, and each minion has a damage threshold of 1. The heroes can then make short work of any remaining foes, getting the satisfaction of total annihilation via dice rolls.

# NEGOTIATION

Negotiation gives the heroes a chance to get what they want without combat … or at least without further combat! You might negotiate with a king to obtain military support against an incursion of demons in a neighboring country. You could enter into talks with a bandit leader to convince her to stop attacking merchant caravans on the road, and instead target nobles loyal to a tyrant. You might attempt to convince an archmage to allow you access to their secret library so you can research the location of a dragon-slaying axe. Negotiation covers all these scenarios and more.

Think of negotiation as something like learning a new system for combat, exploration, or investigation in an RPG. This set of rules provides a framework for roleplaying. The negotiation rules are meant to be read by players and Directors, so that both understand the rules of negotiation. If a player hasn’t read these rules, the Director and other players who have can explain them to that player during their first negotiation.

Negotiation is a framework for important roleplaying encounters when the heroes want to convince an NPC to take a particular course of action, such as lending the heroes an artifact or pardoning a prisoner. This framework tracks the NPC’s interest in the hero’s arguments and their patience, so that the Director knows what the NPC is willing to offer and when it’s time to end the scene. This framework shouldn’t replace roleplaying (though it certainly can if your group doesn’t enjoy that part of RPGs). It’s here to help players and Directors understand the structure of a give-and-take conversation and give some rules that can make a high-stakes conversation even more dramatic!

## WHEN TO NEGOTIATE

In order for a negotiation to occur, an NPC must have an interest in negotiating with the heroes—but must also have a reason to not simply jump on board with whatever the heroes propose. Negotiations happen only when an NPC has that internal tension between interest and reluctance. For example, if the characters ask a king to send his army into a neighboring kingdom to battle a demon incursion, the king needs to be conflicted. He wants to stop the incursion, but he doesn’t want to risk the lives of his soldiers defending a foreign nation while leaving their own people unprotected. If the heroes want the help of the king’s army, they need to negotiate.

Heroes aren’t expected to use the negotiation rules every time one character tries to convince an NPC to see things their way. For instance, if a hero wants information about a cult leader from a captured cultist, a single Presence test using the Lie skill or a Might test using Intimidate is likely all that’s needed. A character who wants to flirt with the local alchemist to obtain a free Healing Potion likely just needs to make a Presence test using the Flirt skill.

By contrast, negotiations typically involve all the heroes interacting with one or more important named NPCs who can provide information, items, or services that dramatically change the course of an adventure. Often, this involves the heroes seeking an item of great power, a retainer or companion, the services of an influential organization or nation, or a plot-twist-worthy piece of information. Convincing a lich to lend the party the legendary Codex Mortis, trying to convince a dragon to halt an attack on a wizard’s tower, or talking the leaders of an enemy army into standing down means that a negotiation is in order.

To negotiate successfully, the heroes must make persuasive arguments to convince NPCs to do what they want. “Do it or we kill you” is a threat that might well accompany a single Might test using the Intimidate skill, but it’s not a negotiating tactic.

### LIMITS OF NEGOTIATION

Some players might instinctively feel that the negotiation rules should give them something akin to mind-control superpowers. They’re not used to imagining NPCs complexly, and might attempt to negotiate in situations where negotiation is either completely unreasonable or literally impossible. No matter how persuasive or well-spoken a hero is, there’s no argument to be made that might convince the vile Lord Syuul to give up his pursuit of evil and become a gardener. A negotiation typically can’t convince a queen to hand over her crown to the heroes and name them the new rulers of the land, or inspire a dragon to fork over every piece of treasure in their hoard.

Negotiations only work when the heroes ask for something from an NPC that the NPC is willing to seriously consider giving them.

Negotiation is not a process that changes an NPC’s character. Rather, the heroes are trying to make an NPC understand how behaving differently would be in character. You might well be able to get the hitherto loyal lieutenant of an evil boss to reconsider the error of their ways. That’s a classic dramatic trope. But even then, you’re not changing their character—you’re convincing them that their current evil ways are out of character. “Is this who you are? Is this how you want to be remembered?!”

If some players want to use the negotiation system as a means to an end by having their characters say, “Just do what we tell you, or else!”, you can remind them that that’s not how most people, including NPCs, work. Any heroes who open with that attitude are likely to lose the negotiation before it begins.

### THE THREAT OF VIOLENCE

In the real world, negotiations rarely come with a threat of immediate violence. Ambassadors don’t usually get into fistfights. But this is a heroic fantasy RPG, featuring heroes who are armed to the teeth and able to alter reality with their minds. The threat of violence is already implied. Everyone involved knows that the characters could draw steel at any moment.

The Director typically assumes that the underlying potential for events to turn violent is already factored into every negotiation. However, if the heroes decide to bring that threat to the forefront, then they’ve exited the realm of negotiation and have entered into a different type of relationship—and it’s probably time to determine initiative.

Negotiation is about persuading someone to help you willingly because you’ve convinced them that meeting your objectives is a good idea. Working with you is wise or logical, or might make them look good. A hero can absolutely threaten someone with violence and force them to do what they want, but this is an incredibly temporary state. A threatened NPC isn’t willingly doing what they’ve been asked. They’re doing it on threat of violence and will comply only while that threat is evident—after which, they’ll likely go back to their previous behavior as soon as they think they can get away with it.

#### NEWGOTIATION

If you’ve never played a game with a dedicated negotiation system like this, you might need to run it once or twice before you master it, similar to learning any new subsystem in an RPG. The new rules you’ll learn are all dedicated to facilitating roleplaying by allowing the heroes to beseech an NPC for aid, and only involve rolling dice when the heroes don’t directly appeal to that NPC’s motivations.

## NEGOTIATION STATS

During negotiation, the Director assigns NPCs four temporary statistics—interest, patience, motivations, and pitfalls. The heroes can strike a favorable deal if they maximize an NPC’s interest by making arguments that invoke the NPC’s motivations and avoid their pitfalls—but they have to do all that before the NPC’s patience wears out.

### INTEREST

An NPC’s interest represents how eager they are to make a deal with the heroes. Interest is graded on a scale of 0 (no interest) to 5 (the most possible interest). When a negotiation begins, an NPC’s interest is between 1 and 4. If the NPC’s interest goes to 5, they make a final offer and the negotiation ends (see **Keep Going or Stop**, below). If the NPC’s interest drops to 0, they end a negotiation without offering the heroes any deal.

Interest increases and decreases during the negotiation based on the arguments the heroes make.

### PATIENCE

An NPC’s patience represents how much time and effort they’re willing to devote to a negotiation. Patience is graded on a scale of 0 to 5, with each NPC starting a negotiation with their patience higher than 0. If an NPC’s patience reaches 0, the NPC makes a final offer and the negotiation ends (see **Keep Going or Stop**).

Patience can decrease each time the heroes make an argument during a negotiation.

#### LANGUAGE AND PATIENCE

If at least one hero negotiating with an NPC speaks the NPC’s native language (not including Caelian), then the NPC’s patience increases by 1 at the start of the negotiation (to a maximum of 5). If three or more heroes negotiating with an NPC speak the NPC’s native language, the NPC’s patience increases by 2 (to a maximum of 5).

#### FOR THE DIRECTOR: SHARING INTEREST AND PATIENCE

It’s up to you as the Director to decide whether to share an NPC’s interest or patience during a negotiation. Sometimes sharing this information can make an encounter more dramatic, with the players watching their progress rise and fall in real-time. Other groups might find negotiation more fun, dramatic, and immersive if those exact numbers are hidden from the players.

In playtesting, some groups loved seeing these statistics and some groups didn’t, just as some groups like knowing the Stamina of every creature in a battle and others prefer to keep that information secret. Talk to your group about what they’d prefer.

### MOTIVATIONS

Each NPC has at least two motivations the heroes can appeal to with their arguments. Arguments that appeal to an NPC’s motivation require an easier power roll to increase the NPC’s interest. Arguments that don’t appeal to a motivation require a more difficult power roll (see **Making Arguments** for more information).

Each motivation can be successfully appealed to only once during a negotiation. To successfully appeal to a motivation, the heroes must use the motivation in an argument without mentioning one of the NPC’s pitfalls or being caught in a lie.

### PITFALLS

Pitfalls are motivations that spark ire, discomfort, shame, fear, or some other negative response in an NPC. Using a pitfall in an argument causes an NPC’s interest and patience to wane. Each NPC has at least one pitfall, and many have two or more.

Pitfalls and motivations are two sides of the same concept. They’re presented below as a single list, so that what might be a motivation for one NPC is a pitfall for another. Whenever the heroes make an argument, they risk stumbling into one of an NPC’s pitfalls unless they do their research beforehand or read the NPC well.

### LIST OF MOTIVATIONS AND PITFALLS

An NPC can have any of the following twelve motivations or pitfalls:

#### BENEVOLENCE

An NPC with the benevolence motivation believes in sharing what they have with others. However, an NPC involved in a negotiation must be limited in their benevolence, so that they don’t just give the heroes what they need.

  Sometimes an NPC’s benevolence might extend only to a specific group of people, so that a benevolent pirate captain might share their plunder freely with the rest of their crew—but they’re still plundering! Other times, an NPC’s charity might be limited by the fact that they don’t have much to give. A benevolent NPC might be hesitant to give the heroes help because they believe their limited resources are more necessary or could do more good somewhere else.

An NPC with the **benevolence pitfall** has a cynical view of the world, believing that no creature has a right to anything just by being alive. The idea of helping others because it’s the right thing to do is a preposterous, immature, or inexperienced idea to be laughed off or snuffed out.

Arguments that appeal to a **benevolence motivation** contend that if the NPC strikes a deal with the heroes, the people the NPC cares about will benefit from the deal. Example arguments include the following:

- “If you lend us the Sword of Agathor, we can make Capital safer for your guild by using it to lay your enemies low.”
- “If you can teleport us into the dragon’s cave, we’ll give you half the wyrm’s hoard once we cut off the creature’s head. That could benefit generations of students at your academy!”

#### DISCOVERY

An NPC with the **discovery motivation** wants to learn new lore, explore forgotten places, break ground with new experiments, or uncover artifacts lost to time. Their curiosity and quest for knowledge might be driven by a specific goal, such as seeking the cure for a rare disease or a portal to a specific far-off world. Or it could be that they are a naturally inquisitive person who just wants to understand all they can about the timescape.

An NPC with the **discovery pitfall** has no interest in finding new places, peoples, or ideas. It might be that the unknown scares them or makes them so uncomfortable that they’d rather remain ignorant. Alternatively, a previous pursuit of discovery might have turned out poorly for them.

Arguments that appeal to a **discovery motivation** contend that striking a deal with the heroes will allow the NPC to gain new knowledge or acquire unique property. Example arguments include the following:

- “Allow us to use your cipher to translate the only copy of the Codex Mortis, and then we’ll let you read the book when we’re done.”
- “We know the journey to Decant Isle is dangerous, but we’re going into uncharted territory. We thought that your crew of sailors might want to be among the few mortals to lay eyes on the place.”

#### FREEDOM

An NPC with the **freedom motivation** wants no authority above them and desires no authority over others. They might already have personal freedom and wish to maintain that status quo, or they might wish to liberate themself or others from someone else’s authority.

An NPC with the **freedom pitfall** believes that a world without authority is one in turmoil and chaos. They might even believe that they are the right person to rule, and that their ideals should be the ones that become the law of the land.

Arguments that appeal to a **freedom motivation** contend that helping the heroes will maintain or grant freedom to the NPC or other people. Example arguments include the following:

- “I know you want to see the queen’s authority revoked forever. She has no heirs. Give us the key to her study so that we can prove her corruption and give you a chance to topple the monarchy henceforth.”
- “If you promise to give us ten vials of Assassin’s Kiss, we’ll see to it that the baron’s prison is emptied.”

#### GREED

An NPC with the **greed motivation** desires wealth and resources above almost anything else. Sometimes these NPCs are misers, much like wyrms who hoard coins and gems but never spend or donate them. Others flaunt their wealth, viewing it as a sign of their station in life.

Greed-driven NPCs might share their wealth with a select group of people they love, such as a noble lord who indulges his children’s every desire. Some NPCs might be greedy for resources other than money, such as a demon who wants to collect and devour souls, or a troll lord who hungers endlessly for the flesh of others.

An NPC with the **greed pitfall** has no interest in accumulating wealth or other resources, and becomes offended if anyone tries to buy their participation. They hold their ideals above material desires.

Arguments that appeal to a **greed motivation** contend that helping the heroes will increase the NPC’s wealth or assets. Example arguments include the following:

- “You should help us battle the overmind. Xorranox’s wealth is legendary, and we’ll see to it that you get your fair share.”
- “Give us a week to do research among your private collection of books, and we’ll give you another ten unique tomes we found in an ancient star elf sanctuary.”

#### HIGHER AUTHORITY

An NPC with the **higher authority motivation** remains staunchly loyal to a person or force they perceive as more important than themself. This higher authority could be an organization, a deity or being of great power, a formal leader such as a noble or monarch, a mystical presence or force the NPC might not fully understand, or a person the NPC sees as an informal authority figure (an older sibling, a personal hero, and so forth).

An NPC with the **higher authority pitfall** scoffs at the idea of serving another. The NPC might not believe that all people should be free, but they certainly believe that they personally shouldn’t have to answer to anyone.

Arguments that appeal to a **higher authority motivation** contend that it’s in the interest of the higher authority for the NPC to strike a deal with the heroes. A hero might even tell the NPC that if the higher authority were in the NPC’s position, they would take the deal. Example arguments include the following:

- “All great creations honor your god, Malus. If you teach me to forge the Hammer of Azdul, that will be a great honor to bestow upon your god.”
- “You know what Jarith the Bold would do? He’d guide us through the vast wasteland of the desert to reach the tower. Will you be our Jarith?”

#### JUSTICE

An NPC with the **justice motivation** wants to see the righteous rewarded and the wicked punished, however subjective their sense of who or what is good and evil. A priest who venerates a god of nature might believe that all who protect plants and animals are righteous, and that those who harvest natural resources as miners and lumberjacks must die. Having a justice motivation doesn’t necessarily make an NPC a kind or charitable person.

An NPC with the **justice pitfall** doesn’t believe that the timescape is an inherently just place, and has no interest in making it one. The world is eternal conflict, there is no such thing as justice, and anyone who thinks otherwise is a naive fool.

Arguments that appeal to a **justice motivation** position the heroes on the good side of an NPC’s sense of right and wrong. Example arguments include the following:

- “You despise those who steal from nature. Allow us peacefully into your wode so we may bottle the Blessed Spring’s water. We’re going to use it to stop an army from felling every tree and tearing up the earth wherever they go.”
- “You think nobles are lazy barons who get rich off the backs of peasants. We want to dethrone Lord Saxton. Lend us your crew of thieves, and we’ll see to it that when Saxton falls, the people can choose their own leaders.”

#### LEGACY

An NPC with the **legacy motivation** desires fame while alive and acclaim that lasts long after their death. They hope others will know and remember their deeds, great or terrible. Some of these NPCs might even seek immortality through deification or undeath, so that the eventual shedding of their mortal coil doesn’t prevent them from continuing to make history.

An NPC with a **legacy pitfall** cares nothing about leaving a personal mark on the world. To them, such vain thinking is nothing but a waste of time.

Arguments that appeal to a **legacy motivation** contend that striking a deal with the heroes increases the likelihood that people will talk about the NPC for centuries to come. Example arguments include the following:

- “If you give us the vizier’s itinerary, I’ll compose a song about your bravery in defying him, then sing it in every tavern from here to Ix!”
- “Yes, losing the battle is a possibility. If we do, the gnolls will still come for you eventually. But if we crush our foes, imagine the honors, the histories, the poems, the statues—all of it created for you because your siege engines turned the tide.”

#### PEACE

An NPC with the **peace motivation** wants calm in their life. Under typical circumstances, they want to be left alone to run their business, farm, kingdom, criminal empire, or whatever small slice of the timescape is theirs. Some such NPCs don’t have peace and need help obtaining it, while others want their peaceful status quo to be maintained.

An NPC with the **peace pitfall** hates being bored. They want excitement, drama, and danger in their life. For them, there’s nothing worse than the status quo.

Arguments that appeal to a **peace motivation** contend that helping the heroes will earn the NPC some peace, at least for a little while. Example arguments include the following:

- “You have a good thing going here. A little burgling of nobles, some alcohol smuggling, and some illegal gambling dens. No one’s getting hurt, but Constable Cofax is closing in on you. We could redirect him toward some real danger to the community if you can help us set a trap for the Watchmaker.”
- “I know you don’t sell to outsiders, but we need that helm. I’m going to use it to turn back a group of hobgoblins marching this way. They’re not going to be as friendly as us.”

#### POWER

An NPC with the **power motivation** covets the authority of others. They want to increase their influence, no matter how great it already is, and maintain their domain. They might seek power through conquering others, the collection of artifacts, or through the infusion of supernatural rituals—though why choose one method when all three together achieve the best results? Some such NPCs are world-traversing tyrants, but the petty administrators of village organizations and shrines can covet power just as hungrily.

An NPC with the **power pitfall** has no interest in authority for themself. They might respect the authority of others, but they hate the thought of ruling over other people and roundly reject any suggestion of the idea.

Arguments that appeal to a **power motivation** contend that working with the heroes will increase or protect the NPC’s power. Example arguments include the following:

- “Everyone knows you should be running the watch, Percy. The old lady’s retiring, and our friend Baron Kuglar is naming the replacement. Now, you let us into the restricted armory, and we’ll put in a good word.”
- “We know he’s your brother, Your Highness, but he’s older—first in line for the throne. If you help us prove he’s in a cult, you become the favorite son.”

#### PROTECTION

An NPC with the **protection motivation** has land, people, information, items, or an organization they want protected above all else. Keeping their charge safe is a duty they hold dear, and aiding in that protection earns their favor. Most people have friends or family they wish to protect, but an NPC with the protection motivation believes in doing so above all else.

An NPC with the **protection pitfall** is happy to leave others to fend for themselves. They don’t believe that it’s their responsibility to protect anyone other than themself and might be outright disgusted at the thought of risking themself or their property to protect others.

Arguments that appeal to a **protection motivation** contend that helping the heroes allows an NPC to better protect their charge. Example arguments include the following:

- “Dead soldiers grow the necromancer’s ranks. Total annihilation is the only way to defeat her. March with us now, while her army is small, and we’ll defeat her. Or you could gamble that someone else tries, fails, and suddenly she’s at the border, ready to overrun your kingdom with an army tenfold larger than what it is now.”
- “I see your grandchild is hell-bent on joining the service. I happen to have a magic suit of armor that could help them ward off the blows of monsters and ruffians. I’d be happy to give it to you, in exchange for borrowing your griffons for a few days. After all, I won’t need the armor if I can simply fly over the marsh’s monsters.”

#### REVELRY

An NPC with the **revelry motivation** just wants to have fun. They enjoy socializing at parties, thrill-seeking, or indulging in other hedonistic activities. Getting pleasure out of life while spending time with people they like is paramount to such NPCs.

An NPC with the **revelry pitfall** sees social encounters and hedonism as a waste of time. They take pleasure only in work or in building their own skills and character. Others who suggest immature debauchery are not worth their time.

Arguments that appeal to the **revelry motivation** contend that striking a deal with the heroes will allow the NPC to get back to reveling sooner, longer, or harder. Example arguments include the following:

- “How would you like to have the most exclusive songs for your exclusive birthday celebration next week? I’ll write you a whole original set list, free of charge … provided you extend me and my band here an invitation.”
- “I know you don’t want to forge five Chronokinesis Crowns. How’s this instead? You do that for me, and I’ll give you the fourteen kegs of whiskey we found in a steel-dwarf ruin. This stuff is old, unique, and forget-your-first-name potent. You can crack a keg with your friends to celebrate a job well done.”

#### VENGEANCE

An NPC with the **vengeance motivation** wants to harm another who has hurt them. Their desire for revenge could be proportional to the harm that was inflicted upon them, or they might wish to pay back their pain with interest. In some cases, a desire for vengeance can be satisfied only by the death of another, but an NPC might wish to pay back their own suffering with embarrassment, career failure, or some other less permanent pain.

An NPC with the **vengeance pitfall** believes that revenge solves nothing. They might have gained this belief firsthand, or they might simply not have the ambition to seek revenge—and they take a dim view of others who do.

Arguments that appeal to the **vengeance motivation** contend that the NPC can gain payback for their pain by helping the heroes. Example arguments include the following:

- “The servants of Ajax killed your sister as she scoured the city for his cults. The Black Iron Pact works for the Overlord. Give us her diaries, and we might uncover the pact’s hideaway and deal a great blow to your hated foes.”
- “That prankster Huckable made your trousers tear at the last council meeting. Don’t you want to pay him back? We can arrange a delicious prank at the next gathering, but we need you to guarantee the safety of the orc refugees.”

### NPCS CHANGE OVER TIME

Just like the heroes, NPCs in negotiations are complex individuals who can change over time. It’s possible that the heroes might have to negotiate with the same NPC for several different favors during the course of a campaign, over which time the NPC’s motivations and pitfalls might change. If the heroes turn a bandit captain with the greed and power motivations into a temporary ally, that criminal might learn from them, changing their ways to rob only those who exploit the poor and giving those earnings to people in need. The next time the heroes negotiate with the bandit captain, they have the benevolence and protection motivations.

## OPENING A NEGOTIATION

A negotiation begins when the heroes ask something of an NPC and the Director deems that the circumstances require a negotiation. Those circumstances always involve the heroes requiring assistance that could change the course of the adventure, and having the NPC conflicted about working with them. Unlike combat, which can be thrust upon the heroes by violent allies, the heroes must be the ones to willingly start a negotiation. They must want something from the NPC, otherwise they have no reason to negotiate!

The Director can decide that an NPC who has something the players want could show up at their door and ask if the heroes want to negotiate, but it’s always okay for the characters to say, “Not interested,” and refuse to negotiate.

### STOP COMBAT, START NEGOTIATION

If a hero wants to halt hostilities to negotiate with the other side, they can use a maneuver to make a hard Presence test (or another applicable test, as the Director determines) in an attempt to stop combat and start a negotiation. The test has a chance of success only if the Director believes the other side is willing and capable of negotiating. A foe who has the upper hand, who hates the heroes beyond measure, or who lacks sapience is unlikely to negotiate.

### STARTING STATS

An NPC’s starting negotiation stats depend on their attitude toward the heroes, as shown on the Negotiation Starting Attitudes table, and can be adjusted by the Director as they see fit. A naturally irascible NPC might have lower patience, while a hostile NPC with a greater-than-expected stake in the negotiation topic might have a higher-than-typical interest.

#### NEGOTIATION STARTING ATTITUDES

| Attitude   | Description                                          | Interest | Patience |
|------------|------------------------------------------------------|----------|----------|
| Hostile    | Openly opposed to the heroes. Barely willing to listen. |    1     |    2     |
| Suspicious | Doubts the heroes’ motives, but is willing to listen. |    2     |    2     |
| Neutral    | Doesn’t feel one way or the other. Would probably rather be somewhere else, but doesn’t want to be rude. |    2     |    3     |
| Open       | Willing to listen, willing to help, as long as the heroes aren’t asking too much. |    3     |    3     |
| Friendly   | The heroes seem like the NPC’s people. The NPC is willing to give them the benefit of the doubt. |    3     |    4     |
| Trusting   | The NPC has reason to take the heroes at their word, and will help if the characters don’t screw this up. |    3     |    5     |

## UNCOVERING MOTIVATIONS

If a hero wishes to figure out an NPC’s motivations, they can begin by simply asking, “What do you want out of this deal?” In response, the NPC can willingly hint at or reveal one of their motivations, usually by asking for something. For instance, a monarch NPC with the **greed** motivation and a penchant for collecting rare animals might suggest that the heroes retrieving a griffon egg would earn the monarch’s gratitude. 

The Director can also decide that during the natural course of the negotiation, the NPC might offer up similar suggestions without the heroes asking, provided the NPC already has an interest of at least 3.

If an NPC isn’t as forthcoming, or if the heroes want to learn one of the NPC’s pitfalls, a hero can make a **Reason**, **Intuition**, or **Presence** test while interacting with the NPC during the negotiation, based on the tactics used to draw out the NPC. The test has the following outcomes:

- **Power Roll + Reason, Intuition, or Presence:**
  - **11 or lower:** The hero learns no information regarding the NPC’s motivations or pitfalls, and the NPC realizes the hero is trying to read them and becomes annoyed. As a consequence, the NPC’s patience is reduced by 1.
  - **12–16:** The hero learns no information regarding the NPC’s motivations or pitfalls.
  - **17+:** The hero learns one of the NPC’s motivations or pitfalls (their choice).

After this test is made, the heroes can’t make another test to determine the same NPC’s motivations or pitfalls until they make an argument to the NPC or the negotiation ends.

### OUTSIDE OF NEGOTIATION

While the heroes can discover an NPC’s motivations or pitfalls through tests made during negotiation, they can employ other methods of investigating motivations or pitfalls before negotiation. Research or a little reconnaissance (for instance, reading the NPC’s diary or talking to their closest friends), can reveal quite a bit about a person!

## MAKING ARGUMENTS

As part of their initial request to an NPC in a negotiation, a hero makes an argument as to why the NPC should give the heroes what they want. The hero might offer to do something in exchange as part of their argument, such as clear bandits from a forest, hand over a piece of treasure, or slay a dragon for the NPC. 

Or instead of offering something, the hero could attempt to convince the NPC that it’s in their own best interest to help—or even that it’s a moral imperative. For example, a hero could appeal to a knight’s sense of duty, the potential wealth a mercenary could make, or the final wish of a queen’s dearly departed grandmother as part of an argument. NPCs who admire the heroes are more likely to respond to compliments and buttering up, while those who fear the heroes are more likely to respond to intimidation and awe.

Arguments need a justification as to why they’re true. “Helping us defeat Lord Saxton is good for you in the long run,” is half of an argument, so the hero also needs to explain why this is the case. “Helping us defeat Lord Saxton is good for you in the long run, because we know he’s coming for your kingdom after Bedegar falls!” 

If a hero makes half an argument, the NPC might follow up with questions such as, “Why do you say that?” or “What makes you think that’s true?” to get the full argument from the hero.

One hero makes an argument to an NPC, but the players can discuss the details of the argument out of character beforehand. It’s up to the group to decide how much discussion to have before making an argument and to decide what argument the players think will best sway the NPC.

This is a good topic for discussion before a group actually gets into a negotiation, so everyone knows the other players’ thoughts. Some groups have the most fun without any around-the-table discussion, while others prefer being able to strategize as often as possible.

### APPEAL TO MOTIVATION

If an argument doesn’t include a pitfall and appeals to one of the NPC’s motivations that hasn’t already been appealed to, the hero making the argument can make an easy test to attempt to sway the NPC with the argument. Depending on the argument, this can be a **Reason**, **Intuition**, or **Presence** test using any applicable skill—most commonly a skill from the interpersonal skill group. The test has the following outcomes:

- **Power Roll + Reason, Intuition, or Presence:**
  - **11 or lower:** The NPC’s patience decreases by 1.
- **12–16:** The NPC’s interest increases by 1, and their patience decreases by 1.
- **17+:** The NPC’s interest increases by 1, and their patience doesn’t change.

At the Director’s discretion, a particularly well-roleplayed or well-reasoned argument automatically counts as a tier 3 result without a test. Good roleplaying should be rewarded!

If the heroes attempt to appeal to a motivation that’s already been appealed to, the NPC’s interest remains the same and their patience decreases by 1.

#### APPEALING TO MULTIPLE MOTIVATIONS

If a hero makes an argument that appears to appeal to multiple motivations, the Director can always ask for clarification, listing the motivations it seemed like the player was trying to appeal to and allowing the player to pick one from the list. If the player had another motivation in mind, it’s up to the Director if the argument appealed to that specific motivation or not.

### NO MOTIVATION OR PITFALL

If an argument doesn’t include one of the NPC’s motivations or pitfalls, the hero who makes the argument must make a more difficult test to appeal to the NPC. The test has the following outcomes:

- **Power Roll + Reason, Intuition, or Presence:**
  - **11 or lower:** The NPC’s patience decreases by 1, and their interest decreases by 1.
  - **12–16:** The NPC’s patience decreases by 1.
  - **17+:** The NPC’s interest increases by 1, and their patience decreases by 1. (On a natural 19 or 20, the NPC’s patience remains the same.)

If the heroes try to use the same argument without a pitfall or motivation twice, the test automatically gets a tier 1 result.

### EVERYONE CAN PARTICIPATE

Since **Reason** and **Intuition** with creatively applied skills can be used to make arguments, all heroes can actively participate in the process of negotiation. The hero with the highest **Presence** who has the **Persuade** skill doesn’t automatically have to be the one who makes all the tests.

### CAUGHT IN A LIE

If a hero lies to an NPC with an argument that fails to increase the NPC’s interest, the Director can decide that the NPC catches the lie and is offended by it. The NPC’s interest decreases by 1, in addition to any decrease imposed by the failure.

### PITFALL USED

If an argument uses one of the NPC’s pitfalls, it automatically fails and the NPC’s interest and patience each decrease by 1. The NPC might also warn the heroes not to treat them in such a way again.

### RENOWN AND NEGOTIATION

During a negotiation, an NPC has an **Impression** score that determines the amount of **Renown** needed to influence them (see **Renown**). This score only matters if the NPC knows of the heroes. A dragon who slumbered away the last hundred years and was just woken up to negotiate can’t be influenced by a hero’s Renown. (By the way, it’s a terrible idea to wake a dragon, even if they do know you’re famous.) If the NPC does know of the hero and has an **Impression** that is equal to or lower than the hero’s Renown, the NPC can be influenced by that hero.

The higher an NPC’s Impression, the harder they are to influence with Renown. A small-time brigand has a lower Impression score than a monarch who meets with powerful and famous people all the time. The **NPCs and Impression** table provides examples of different archetypical NPC Impression scores. If a creature has a level, then their Impression equals their level unless the Director deems otherwise.

#### NPCS AND IMPRESSION

| Impression | Example NPC                             |
|------------|-----------------------------------------|
| 1          | Brigand leader, commoner, shop owner    |
| 2          | Knight, local guildmaster, professor    |
| 3          | Cult leader, locally known mage, noble lord |
| 4          | Assassin, baron, locally famous entertainer |
| 5          | Watch captain in a large city, high priest, viscount |
| 6          | Count, warlord                          |
| 7          | Marquis, world-renowned entertainer     |
| 8          | Duke, spymaster                         |
| 9          | Archmage, prince                        |
| 10         | Demon lord, monarch                     |
| 11         | Archdevil, archfey, demigod             |
| 12         | Deity, titan                            |

#### FAME OR INFAMY?

If a hero has enough Renown to influence an NPC during negotiation, the Director decides if they are **famous** or **infamous** to the NPC. If the NPC appreciates a character’s deeds and views them as a hero who makes the world a better place, that hero is **famous** to them. If the NPC believes the hero’s accomplishments make the world worse and views them as an enemy, the hero is **infamous** to the NPC.

#### INFLUENCING TESTS

If a hero is **famous** to an NPC, they gain an edge on tests when making arguments to which the **Flirt**, **Lead**, or **Persuade** skill could be applied. If they are **infamous** to the NPC, they gain an edge on tests when making arguments to which the **Brag**, **Interrogate**, or **Intimidate** skill could be applied. A hero gains this edge even if they don’t have the appropriate skill.

## NPC RESPONSE AND OFFER

After a hero makes an argument, the NPC responds in one of three ways:

- An NPC responds positively if the heroes increase the NPC’s interest. “That’s an excellent point.” “You’ve given me much to consider.” “Fair enough.” “Makes sense to me.”
- An NPC responds negatively if the heroes decrease their interest. “I don’t buy that.” “Poppycock!” “I hear you, but I disagree.” “That’s not going to sway me.”

- An NPC responds with impatience if the heroes fail to increase or decrease their interest. “I’ve heard that before.” “Are you going to offer me anything real?” “This debate is tiresome.” “BORING!”

Unless the NPC is deceitful, it should be clear to the heroes if their argument helped convince the NPC, if they need to take a new approach, or if the argument actually did more harm than good. The initial response should come with an offer (or a refusal to make an offer) based on the NPC’s current interest. If a hero’s argument reduces an NPC’s patience to 0, the NPC lets the heroes know that this is their final offer.

### FOR THE DIRECTOR: REASONS FOR DECEPTION

Under certain circumstances, an NPC might not want to show the heroes how well their arguments are working. For example, if an NPC’s interest has dropped so low that they now intend to harm the heroes, the NPC might falsely agree to what the heroes ask for as part of a trap. Likewise, a greedy NPC might try to keep their enthusiasm for a deal concealed while their interest is high to obtain more money or favors from the heroes. If a hero thinks an NPC is attempting to fool them, they can make an **Intuition** test. On a success, the hero learns their true standing with the NPC.

### INTEREST 5 ("YES, AND ...")

If the NPC’s interest is 5, they offer everything the heroes initially asked for—and then sweeten the deal. This result is the best possible outcome for the heroes. If they offered to perform any services or make payments as part of the deal, the NPC might waive those obligations, allowing the heroes to get what they want for free. Alternatively, the NPC might hold the heroes to any offers they made and instead offer an extra service or item on top of what was asked for.

For example, if the heroes asked the boss of a thieves guild for that organization’s help in standing against Lord Saxton, the guildmaster might pledge to send a unit of elite assassins to aid in the battle against that tyrannical noble, and then offer the heroes a quiver filled with explosive arrows to give them an additional advantage in the fight.

The NPC should let the heroes know that this is the best offer they can make.

### INTEREST 4 ("YES.")

If the NPC’s interest is 4, they offer the heroes everything they asked for but won’t sweeten the deal. The NPC also accepts anything the heroes have offered as part of the deal with this result.

For example, if the heroes offered to help spring a guild thief from prison in exchange for the thieves guild’s elite assassins standing against Lord Saxton, the guildmaster agrees to those terms without attempting to adjust anything. This likely ends the negotiation, but it’s possible that the heroes could push for a little more, provided the NPC has the patience for another argument. A Director could prompt the heroes to push for more by having the NPC ask a leading question, such as, “Is there anything else?” or “What else do you want from me?”

### INTEREST 3 ("YES, BUT ...")

If the NPC’s interest is 3, they offer the heroes what they want in exchange for everything the heroes offered … then they ask for a little extra, such as a favor or a payment from the characters. If the heroes offered to free a thieves guild member from prison in exchange for the service of the organization’s assassins, the guildmaster might ask them to free an additional prisoner, or to grant the prisoner they rescue a sum of cash or a magic weapon.

### INTEREST 2 ("NO, BUT ...")

If the NPC’s interest is 2, the NPC can’t give the heroes what they want. However, they are willing to offer other less impactful goods or services in exchange for whatever the heroes have promised. The guildmaster might not be willing to spare any troops to fight Lord Saxton, but could instead offer the latest spy reports on Saxton’s movements in exchange for the jailbreak.

### INTEREST 1 ("NO.")

If the NPC’s interest is 1, they outright reject the heroes’ idea without a counteroffer. If the NPC still has patience, they might press the heroes for a better deal, saying something like, “Why should we risk our necks to help you fight Lord Saxton? What’s really in it for the thieves guild, other than a short, brutal end when you inevitably fail?”

### INTEREST 0 ("NO, AND ...")

If an NPC’s interest is 0, they offer nothing, refuse to negotiate further, and seek to harm the heroes. The NPC might attack immediately, or they could take a different approach, perhaps spreading malicious rumors about the characters, sending assassins after them, or otherwise making their lives difficult. If the heroes don’t want to be at odds with the NPC, they’ll need to offer a valuable gift or undertake a quest just to make amends.

It is impossible to continue a negotiation when an NPC’s interest drops to 0.

### FOR THE DIRECTOR: CREATING RESPONSES AND OFFERS

When you’re preparing a negotiation, think of at least two specific asks that the NPC could make of the heroes. Then you’re prepared if the heroes ask what they can do for the NPC and you want to give a response, or if the NPC’s interest becomes 3. These asks could be specific items the heroes have or can obtain (such as a magic sword or psionic crystal), or they might be favors in the form of adventuring (such as slaying a dragon or rescuing a village from a siege).

You should also have at least two specific ways the NPC can help the heroes beyond what they’re asking for. These can be used if the NPC’s interest becomes 2, to give the heroes something that can help them that isn’t what they asked for. They can also be used if the NPC’s interest rises to 5, to give the heroes something extra in addition to what they asked for. This help could take the form of treasures or the assistance of a companion or retainer. It might be hidden information that the heroes don’t yet know, and which can help them with their overall goal. Or perhaps it’s a less impactful version of what the heroes initially asked for. If the heroes ask an ancient dragon for help storming a castle, the dragon might offer the services of their younger, less powerful offspring instead of their own assistance … or in addition to it!

## KEEP GOING OR STOP

If an NPC still has patience after making an offer and their interest is between 1 and 4, the heroes can make another argument to attempt to improve the deal. Alternatively, they can accept the offer and end the negotiation. Let the players drive this decision. You can always have an NPC show they have patience remaining by asking, “Is there anything else?”

If the NPC’s patience is 0 or their interest is 5, then the offer the NPC makes is their final offer to the characters. The heroes can accept the offer or not, but either way, the negotiation ends.

If the NPC’s interest is 0, the NPC ends the negotiation without accepting a deal.

The heroes can walk away from a negotiation without accepting a deal at any time.

## SAMPLE NEGOTIATION

After killing the true lord of Bedegar, the tyrannical Lord Saxton took over the barony’s capital and is presently gathering forces of his own to march on the rest of Bedegar’s settlements. The heroes recently saved Edmund, the true heir to Bedegar’s throne, and are now gathering forces to build an army that can stand against Saxton and defeat the tyrant.

The heroes are engaging in a negotiation with **Zola Honeycut**, the human guildmaster of the Clock—a thieves’ guild whose headquarters is located in Bedegar’s capital. The guild openly opposed Saxton when he first seized power, but the tyrant was quick to crack down on all known members of the Clock, forcing them into hiding or hanging them as a warning to others. The heroes’ hope is that they can convince Zola to support their armed resistance.

### ZOLA’S NEGOTIATION STATS

Zola is neutral toward the heroes when the negotiation begins. She knows them only by reputation, though she understands that they too believe Saxton is a tyrant who must be stopped. However, standing up to that tyrant has cost her people dearly, and she’s not sure she’s ready to rejoin the fight. One wrong move could spell the end of the Clock!

#### ZOLA HONEYCUT NEGOTIATION STATS

- **Interest:** 2
- **Patience:** 3
- **Impression:** 3

#### Motivations

- **Benevolence:** Zola’s name, Honeycut, comes from the fact that she always gives her fellow thieves a bigger cut than her own on jobs.
- **Protection:** The members of the Clock are the only family Zola’s ever known. The guild’s motto is “The Clock is always ticking,” because they’re always planning the next job and their ever-richer future. Zola doesn’t want to be the guild’s last master.

#### Pitfalls

- **Higher Authority:** Zola has no interest in serving anyone other than herself, and she scoffs at the suggestion of taking orders.
- **Revelry:** Zola is all business and has no time for frivolity, especially while living under Saxton’s threat.

### ROLEPLAYING ZOLA

Zola is glad that people are finally opposing Lord Saxton, but is angry that no one rose up with the Clock months ago when the tyrant first staged his coup. She’s passionate about protecting her people, quick to call out dangerous plans in arguments she doesn’t like, and fast to praise statements she agrees with. She’s not afraid to speak her mind to the heroes, knowing that they share her desire to see Saxton gone. She’s just not sure she can risk more of her found family in the current fight.

### NEGOTIATION IN ACTION

Here’s how the negotiation with Zola might play out. In this scenario, Alyssa is playing Jorn the tactician, Grace is playing Val the conduit, James is playing Korvo the shadow, and Matt is playing Linn the talent. All the heroes have a Renown of 2 except for Jorn, who has a Renown of 3 and is therefore famous to Zola.

**Director:** The windows are boarded up, allowing no light to enter the seemingly abandoned Goat’s Eye tavern. The whole place smells of charred wood, evidence of the fire that burned most of the building’s interior three years ago. As the door shuts behind you, light from a hooded lantern on the opposite side of the tavern suddenly fills the room. Amid the blackened walls and pillars, you see that six burly ruffians flank your group on both sides. The human holding the lantern smiles. “Welcome. I’m Zola. Willoughby told me you were coming. Have a seat.” She motions to a few crates arranged in a circle around a wide barrel.

**James (playing Korvo):** I have a seat and say, “Korvo at your service, Ms. Honeycut. And these here are the finest companions a polder could ask for: Linn, Jorn, and Val.”

**Director:** Zola nods to each of you in turn, then says, “You’ll excuse me if I dispense with more pleasantries. These days, no place is safe for the Clock. We keep moving. So tell me, what are you here for?”

**Alyssa (playing Jorn):** “We’re building an army to take down Saxton once and for all.”

**Director:** Zola gives a mirthless chuckle as she shakes her head. “Oh is that all? I have to tell you, I don’t think the four of you stand much of a chance. Unless you’re hiding a legion or two of dwarves in your pockets. Yes, you have Jorn the Mighty with you, but you’ll need more than one famous warrior to win the day.”

**Alyssa:** Ah! So she has heard of me at least! Thanks, Renown.

**Grace (playing Val):** “We don’t. But we do have Lord Edmund—the true heir to the Bedegar throne.”

**Director:** Zola nods, impressed. “I’m glad the boy is safe, but that’s all he is—a boy, not an army.”

**Matt (playing Linn):** “He’s a boy people will rally around. We have no army, but that’s why we’re here. We’re planning on changing that. Can you spare any soldiers for our cause?”

The negotiation officially starts. The heroes have stated what they want from Zola. The Director begins by prompting them to make an argument.

**Director:** Zola leans back on her crate. “There it is. The Clock has sacrificed much against Saxton. Why should we risk more to help? No one was here to help us months ago when we stood up to tyranny.”

**Alyssa:** I nod along as Zola speaks, listening before I say, “We didn’t hear of your struggle until after Saxton had already hanged many of your brave people. We’re here now. How can we help?”

Before making an argument, Jorn is attempting to learn what Zola’s motivations are by simply asking. The Director decides to reveal one of Zola’s motivations: **protection**.

**Director:** “If I were to make a deal with you, and that’s a big ‘if,’ I’d need assurances that you can end this. Proof would be even better. The protection of my people is my top priority. We can earn freedom from Saxton once we regain our strength.”

**James:** Aha! I got this, folks. I stand atop my crate and say, “Well, we can surely offer that, Ms. Honeycut. We have convinced Lord Edmund to grant amnesty to any who swear to serve him.” I’d like to roll a Presence test to convince her.

**Director:** Hold it there, champ. Zola’s eyes narrow as you speak, and she holds up a hand to cut you off. “I will not swear to serve any ruler, no matter how benevolent. I’ll consider being a partner, but even that outlook is grim if you tell me again that I need to bend the knee.”

Korvo inadvertently made an argument using a **pitfall** by appealing to a **higher authority**. The Director notes that Zola’s interest drops to 1 and her patience drops to 2. Zola gave a pretty firm “No” response here, which is what an NPC with an interest of 1 would say. However, the Director phrased Zola’s response in such a way that the heroes know they can keep making arguments if they wish, since her patience hasn’t run out.

**James:** Sorry! I thought that’d work. Seems like higher authority is a pitfall for her.

**Grace:** Let’s try to avoid any others. Val says, “We’re sorry, Zola. We don’t want to do anything else to offend you.” I’d like to make an Intuition test and use my **Read Person** skill to gauge her reaction to see if I can discern any other pitfalls.

**Director:** Cool. Hard difficulty.

**Grace:** I got a 17! Success.

**Director:** Zola sits back, chuckling. “There’s two things I can’t stand—anyone telling me to kiss a ring and merry fools who would rather go drinking than fight for their freedom. Luckily, you’re not the latter.” You can tell that **revelry** also won’t go over well with Zola.

The heroes now know both of Zola’s pitfalls: **higher authority** and **revelry**.

**Matt:** Linn is going to say, “We’re recruiting more than just the Clock. We have a good chance of recruiting the elves of the wode and the orcs of Forest Rend, and we’re already training the people of Gravesford to put up a fight. If we strike before Saxton can fully build his forces, we all stand a better chance of survival. If you don’t stand with us, Saxton will still come for you. He’s already coming for you. The Clock stands less of a chance alone.”

**Director:** I think that’s a Reason test, since you’re using logic to point out that you have a better chance together than on your own. It’s easy too, since you’re appealing to one of her motivations.

**Matt:** Great! Can I use **Lead** here, since I’m demonstrating our ability to bring people together?

**Director:** I’ll allow it.

**Matt:** That’s a 14!

Because Linn appealed to a motivation, Zola’s interest increases to 2, and her patience remains at 2. The Director gives a “No, but … ” response based on Zola’s interest. At this point, the heroes haven’t promised anything, so she offers them something for free. The Director makes it clear in Zola’s response that the negotiation can still continue if that’s what the players want.

**Director:** Zola nods along as you speak. “You’re correct, but I’m not sure I can spare the people. I’ll tell you what I can do. I have spies watching Saxton still. I can give you information about his troops’ movements. Will that suffice?”

**Alyssa:** I don’t think so, right?

**James:** No. We need an army.

**Matt:** Yeah, let’s push it.

**Grace:** Agreed.

**Alyssa:** I wonder if we can try to figure out another one of her motivations.

**James:** Is there anything I know about Zola’s reputation? I have the **Criminal Underworld** skill.

**Director:** Make a hard Reason test.

**James:** That’s an 18! Success!

**Director:** Korvo would know that Zola got the name Honeycut because she’s generous with the guild’s earnings. She gives all her fellow thieves a nice cut of every job. Korvo’s success has revealed Zola’s **benevolence** motivation.

**James:** Brilliant! I think I probably would’ve shared that with the group before this.

**Director:** Yeah, that makes sense.

**Alyssa:** Great. I’ll say, “It would be worthwhile in other ways for your crew if you joined our side.”

**Director:** Zola’s interest is piqued. “What makes you say that?”

**Alyssa:** “Even before his coup, Saxton had a considerable amount of wealth. If he’s deposed, those riches need to go somewhere. The Clock will get a cut—a honey of a cut, you might say. Edmund has also promised to share his family’s fortune with any who stand with him against Saxton … after the young lord reclaims the throne, that is.”

**Director:** You’re appealing to one of her motivations, so make an easy Presence test.

**Alyssa:** Can I use my **Persuade** skill too?

**Director:** Absolutely. And you gain an edge because you’re famous to her.

**Alyssa:** I got a 12!

Because Jorn appealed to a motivation, Zola’s interest increases to 3, and her patience is reduced to 1. The Director gives a “Yes, but …” response while making it clear that the negotiation can still continue.

**Director:** Zola contemplates this for a moment. She nods, “I’m starting to see the benefits. I think I can spare some folks to help you, but you have to help them first. See, my best warriors are locked up in Bedegar Keep. They’re supposed to be hanged in two days. If you free them, I’ll see to it they stand with you against Saxton. We were making a plan to free them ourselves, but could frankly use the help.”

**Grace:** We could push the Clock to do it themselves, but I can’t see Val turning her back on people in need.

**James:** Hear, hear. I’m done pushing my luck on this one.

**Matt:** It’ll mean less time to recruit the other troops, so we’d better work quickly.

**Alyssa:** Then we’re in agreement. I offer a handshake to Zola. “You’ve got yourself a deal.”

The negotiation ends! The heroes could have pushed for a better deal, but they’re satisfied with the offer from Zola, so they accept her terms.

# DOWNTIME PROJECTS

As a team, you and your fellow heroes can achieve great things. But the time between adventures gives you a chance to pursue your own goals: uncover forbidden lore in ancient tomes, forge weapons of great power, build ships that can sail the skies, and more. Draw Steel’s project rules allow heroes to use their time during respites to obtain important information, make new equipment and strongholds, and engage in other activities to support their adventuring.

## TRACKING PROJECTS

You start a project during a respite. You can start as many projects as you like, but you can’t work on more than one project at a time during a respite. Eventually, you’ll be able to hire creatures who can work on additional projects for you. 

You can track project progress on your character sheet. As you work on a project, you might look over old books that you’ve found in your travels, perform experiments, converse with experts and scholars, or work with tools to create something.

## PROJECT PREREQUISITES

All projects have prerequisites you must meet before you can start them.

### ITEM PREREQUISITES

Many projects have special items you must possess or obtain before you can begin the project. For instance, you can’t build an airship without first finding a Wind Crystal of Quintessence, a rare and key component in that vehicle’s construction. Other projects have prerequisites that involve undertaking certain actions during the project process.

### PROJECT SOURCE

To start a project, you must have access to specific lore detailing how the project is to be undertaken. This can be in the form of written information (a book, scroll, schematic, and so forth), an expert tutor with wisdom to share, a master artisan with skills to teach, a magical manifestation of the project’s scope and secrets, or any other form of the Director’s determination. This project-focused lore is referred to as a project source. Not only do you need project sources to start a project, but you must have access to them whenever you make a project roll for that particular project (see Project Roll).

Some project sources can be relatively easy to find. Building a castle doesn’t require tomes filled with ancient lore, but it’s also not something every stonemason knows how to do. However, the location of the tomb of Ashrya, the mummified protector of one hundred slumbering sorcerer-sovereigns, might exist only in a single tome that requires an accompanying adventure to unearth.

The language with which project sources are set down or can be shared is chosen by the Director. The sample projects below have suggestions, though you might be able to find a version of a source in other languages as well.

Whenever the Director determines that a creature with needed knowledge can be used as a project source, another hero can serve as this source of knowledge. However, they must use a respite activity to be your project source whenever you make a project roll related to the project.

#### SEARCH FOR COMMON PROJECT SOURCES

If you need a project source for a particular project, ask your Director if the source is common enough that it might be found in a substantial library, among a group of sages or guild artisans, and so forth. If the Director says yes, then the next time you take a respite in a place with a library or access to creatures with the knowledge you seek, you can locate the project source you need as a respite activity.

## PROJECT ROLL

As a respite activity, you can make a project roll for one of your own projects. You can also make a project roll to contribute to another hero’s project, with their permission.

A project roll is a test with a special outcome. The characteristic used in the test is determined by the project. When you make a project roll, the result—no matter how low—becomes project points that are accrued by the project. Even if you have a penalty on a project roll, the minimum result for the roll is 1. If you get a natural 20 on the roll, this is called a breakthrough, and you can make another project roll for the same project as part of the same respite activity.

A project is complete when it accrues project points equal to or greater than its project goal—the number of points it takes to complete the project, noted in each project’s description.

As you work on a project, the Director can add events that help form the narrative of your research, crafting, or other activities. These events might provide unexpected benefits or challenges as you work on your project, to help make the journey as dramatic as arriving at the destination. See *For the Director: Project Events* for more information.

### PROJECT ROLL EDGES AND BANES

Since project rolls don’t use success tiers, they don’t follow the normal rules for double edges and double banes. If you gain an edge on a project roll, you add 2 to the roll, as usual. But if you have a double edge, you add 4 to the roll. Likewise, you subtract 2 from a project roll that takes a bane, and you subtract 4 from a roll that has a double bane.

### SKILLS AND PROJECT ROLLS

You can apply skills from either the crafting or lore skill groups to project rolls (see *Skills in Tests*). For example, you could use the Tailoring skill for project rolls related to making a magic cloak, and you could use the History skill while attempting to research the location of an ancient battle where a magic crown was lost. At the Director’s discretion, you can also use skills from other skill groups.

but a skill used for a project roll must be directly related to the project.

### LANGUAGE AND PROJECT ROLLS

If you know the language of a project source, you can make a project roll without any issues. If you don’t know the language of the source but you know a related language, the project roll takes a bane. If you don’t know the source’s language or a related language, the project roll has a double bane.

### GUIDES

Heroes sometimes find guides—special books, schematics, knowledgeable NPCs, magical recordings, and so forth—providing important and easy-to-understand information relating to a project. Each guide has a knowledge value and a connection to a specific project that greatly decreases the time required to complete the project. When a hero studies a guide as a respite activity, they gain the guide’s knowledge value as project points toward its project. The guide can’t be used with that specific instance of the project again, though it can be used for a different project of the same type.

Guides are awarded at the Director’s discretion, usually as a tool that can be used to increase the speed of complex projects for campaigns with little downtime. For example, the *Craft Automaton* project has a project goal of 1,500, requiring a fair bit of downtime. But if a hero finds a manual that describes how to craft an automaton and grants them 500 or more project points toward the *Craft Automaton* project, the crafting time can be significantly reduced.

A guide must provide its information in a language you understand for you to gain its full benefit. If it’s written in a language related to one you know, you gain only half the guide’s knowledge value (rounded down) as project points toward your project.

### FOR THE DIRECTOR: PROJECT EVENTS

Project events are story events that present boons and challenges to heroes as they complete research and crafting projects. These events are entirely optional. If you want to have a game where the heroes simply work toward their goals by making project rolls, that’s fine. But using these events can help you inject more drama into the processes of research and crafting.

#### WHEN TO USE PROJECT EVENTS

Projects don’t need an event every time a hero makes a project roll. If they did, the heroes would likely spend all their time trying to manage their projects and never do any adventuring. Instead, pick one of the following methods to determine when an event occurs in a project. You can always switch up the method you use during a campaign, doing whatever you think works best for the current situation.

#### ROLL FOR EVENT

If you want events to be a surprise for even you, then once during any respite when one or more heroes makes a project roll, roll a d6. On a result of 6, an event occurs. This is a good option if you enjoy coming up with story on the fly during play.

#### EVENT MILESTONES

If you want to guarantee that events occur during a project, use project point milestones. When the project accrues a certain number of points, an event occurs the next time a hero wants to make a project roll. This approach works well if you want to plan your event in detail before it occurs.

You can use the *Suggested Event Milestones* table to determine when an event should occur during a project.

##### SUGGESTED EVENT MILESTONES

| Project Goal | Milestones |
|--------------|------------|
| Fewer than 30 | None |
| 31–200 | One event halfway to the goal |
| 201–999 | Two events at one-third and two-thirds of the way to the goal |
| 1,000 or more | Three events at one-quarter, one-half, and three-quarters of the way to the goal |

#### WHENEVER YOU WANT

Whenever you think the heroes could use a little drama during a respite, throw in an event. This approach allows you to plan an event in detail when a project begins, then deploy it at the most dramatic moment—or even throw it in during an encounter if you’re feeling saucy!

#### DEPLOYING EVENTS

An event occurs when a hero makes a project roll. You can roll for or choose an event from the appropriate events prompts table, or use the tables to inspire your own events. Each entry on the table is a narrative prompt that you can change and flesh out as you see fit, and specifies whether it occurs before or after the project roll.

## CRAFTING PROJECTS

Crafting projects enable heroes to create vehicles, magic items, and more. When you begin a crafting project, other creatures can also work on the project, using their respite activity to contribute a project roll to it in order to get the work done faster. Unless a project has a complication table of its own, research projects use the *Crafting and Research Events Prompts* table for event prompts.

### BUILD AIRSHIP

- **Item Prerequisites:** Wind Crystal of Quintessence
- **Project Source:** Texts or lore in Old Sky Elf
- **Project Roll Characteristic:** Might, Reason, or Presence
- **Project Goal:** 3,000

When you begin this project, you hire a crew of carpenters, mages, and shipwrights who work in the area where the

project begins, with these artisans building the ship for you. You can make a project roll whenever you are overseeing the project, which you might be able to do remotely through the use of magic or psionics.

When the project is completed, you have an airship. You and any creatures you designate can operate the ship by touching the wheel. During combat, a creature touching the wheel of the ship can use a maneuver to make the ship move up to 10 squares. The ship can be moved only once per round. Out of combat, the ship has a speed of 130 miles per day.

An airship is an object (giving it immunity to all poison and psychic damage), and can take 200 damage before it is destroyed. If the damage the ship takes is not too severe (as the Director determines), as long as you have access to materials that can repair the ship, you can restore it back to its original condition as a respite activity.

### BUILD OR REPAIR ROAD

- **Item Prerequisites:** Three writs of approval, each from a different guild: one of engineers, one of masons, and one of guards
- **Project Source:** Texts or lore in Caelian
- **Project Roll Characteristic:** Might, Reason, or Presence
- **Project Goal:** Varies

When you begin this project, you hire a crew of masons, engineers, and guards who work in the starting location where the project began and build or repair the road for you. You can make a project roll whenever you are overseeing the project, which you may be able to do remotely through the use of magic or psionics, provided you have the means.

The project points required to complete work on the road equals 10 × the road’s length in miles. The goal is cut in half if you are repairing an existing road, or someone else begins work on a second road project starting from the second location connecting to your first location.

#### CIVILIZATION DISTANCE PROJECT GOALS

| Project Distance | Renown Earned |
|------------------|--------------|
| 25 Miles or less | 1            |
| 26-50 Miles      | 1            |
| 51-100 Miles     | 2            |
| More than 100 Miles | 3         |

When you complete the project, you earn Renown with the people depending on the length of the road. Time spent traveling on the road is cut in half. Access to resources and knowledge is improved in both locations, giving you and your allies an edge on project rolls to discover lore while you are in the area.

#### BUILD OR REPAIR ROAD EVENTS PROMPTS

| d10 | Prompt |
|-----|--------|
| 1   | Before the roll, the crews have uncovered an ancient road, made with remarkable techniques that grant it an incredibly sturdy base on which to build. The project gains an automatic breakthrough and the project goal is halved if it was not already halved. |
| 2   | After the roll, the local population grows in excitement with each completed portion. The hero’s name spreads as a builder of bridges both literal and social. If the roll is 11 or higher, the community comes together to complete the project alongside the hero’s hired crew. The hero doubles the renown earned at the end of the project. |
| 3   | Before the roll, a third party—the local religious or civic authority—has heard of the project and sent laborers to accelerate it in exchange for a future favor. The hero gains an immediate 50 points if they accept the help. |
| 4   | After the roll, the local-hired hands and the engineers find themselves frequently at odds, hindering the project. Completing it requires an additional 50 project points or the hero settling the problem another way. |
| 5   | Before the roll, the supply caravans are disrupted by bandits, requiring extra guards. The hero can handle the problem personally or add an additional 50 project points to its completion. |
| 6   | After the roll, not everyone is happy about the march of civilization. The project is hindered by supernatural curses. Stones move, vines and overgrowth reclaim the way, or the earth churns back to its previous form. The hero must make amends or the renown earned by completing the project does not extend to the local supernatural community. |
| 7   | After the roll, the ditchers hit an ancient well, retaining wall, or hidden stream that results in an immediate flood. The work is delayed, but the new water source ultimately provides a boon to the local farming communities. The project points earned by this roll are halved, but upon completion, the hero gains additional renown for completing the project. |
| 8   | Before the roll, a new worker arrives who wants to work on the project. They are adept at unusual solutions, like engineering especially sturdy wooden bridges, or using bilge pumps to keep rainwater from slowing the work. They want to work on the project, but ask for a consumable treasure one of the heroes has. If they are hired, the project gains an immediate breakthrough. |
| 9   | Before the roll, the proposed road touches on a supernatural intersection, a crossing place that draws interest from a powerful devil. Its completion becomes the personal interest of this being. They offer to make progress go faster, but demand a favor from the heroes. |

from the hero. If the deal is accepted, double the result of each project roll for this project until its completion. |

| 10  | After the roll, a guildmaster has it out for the hero. Whether it’s from something in their past, or just something in the way this project was taken on, they’ve made it their mission to hinder the project by dragging the hero’s name through the mud. The hero suffers -1 Renown while these rumors persist. |

### CRAFT AUTOMATON

- **Item Prerequisites:** An ounce of iridoss, a gemstone fused with the power of other worlds
- **Project Source:** Texts or lore in Steel Dwarf
- **Project Roll Characteristic:** Reason
- **Project Goal:** 1,500

When you complete this project, you have constructed an automaton, which you can communicate telepathically with over any distance. The automaton obeys your commands. You control the automaton during combat, and it acts on the same turn as you.  
*(Playtest note: Automaton stat block coming soon.)*

### CRAFT TELEPORTATION PLATFORM

- **Item Prerequisites:** 1 spatial navigator
- **Project Source:** Texts or lore in Voll
- **Project Roll Characteristic:** Reason
- **Project Goal:** 1,500

When you complete this project, you end up with a 3 x 3 square teleportation platform with a magic password. The platform is permanently affixed to the ground where you create it. You can use the teleportation platform to instantly teleport any creatures or objects on the platform to a location or another teleportation platform with a magic password you know. Each time the teleportation platform is used, the chance of it malfunctioning and teleporting its contents to a random platform increases by 1% (to a maximum of 50%). When you have access to the platform, you can restore it back to its original condition as a respite activity.

### CRAFT TREASURE

You can craft the items found in Treasures. Each item notes its prerequisites, project source, project roll characteristic, and project goal.

### IMBUE TREASURE

You can create leveled treasures by imbuing items with magic or psionic power. You must have a mundane version of the item you plan to imbue, such as a sword or shield, when you begin this project.

You can imbue any item three times. The first time you imbue it, you pick a 1st-level enhancement. The second time you imbue it, you pick a 5th-level enhancement. The third time you imbue it, you pick a 9th-level enhancement. 

A hero using armor, an implement, or a weapon can’t benefit from an enhancement unless they are using a kit that includes the armor, implement, or weapon type, and their level matches the enhancement’s level.

If an enhancement has a Roman numeral greater than I after it, such as the Phasing III enhancement, that enhancement can’t be applied unless the item has all previous versions of the enhancement. This means you can’t imbue armor with the Phasing III enhancement unless it has the Phasing I and Phasing II enhancements first.

Enhancements are listed by item type and level. Each item type and level features a table showing the name, item prerequisites, and project source language of each enhancement. Imbued items take the Magic or Psionic keyword (your choice), plus any keywords appropriate to the type of item (Light Armor, Implement, Medium Weapon, and so forth).

Imbuing magical treasure as a project typically means you undertake that project to make use of the treasure yourself. As such, all the features of imbuing make reference to “you” as the user of the item. However, imbued items can be created for other creatures, or created by other creatures and found as treasure.

#### IMBUE ARMOR

Armor imbued with an enhancement grants you special benefits while it is worn. Additionally, when your armor receives its 1st-level enhancement, it also grants a +6 Stamina bonus. A 5th-level enhancement increases the Stamina bonus to +12, and a 9th-level enhancement increases it to +21.

##### 1ST-LEVEL ARMOR ENHANCEMENT

- **Item Prerequisites:** Varies
- **Project Source:** Texts or lore in a language determined by the enhancement
- **Project Roll Characteristic:** Might, Reason, or Intuition
- **Project Goal:** 150

##### 1ST-LEVEL ARMOR ENHANCEMENTS

| Enhancement     | Item Prerequisite                                     | Project Source Language |
|-----------------|--------------------------------------------------------|-------------------------|
| Awe             | A lock of hair from a fey, taken amicably for Charming or in violence for Threatening | Khelt                    |
| Damage Immunity I | Elemental sand left behind when an elemental enters Orden from Quintessence | Zaliac                   |
| Disguise        | The blood of a lycanthrope                             | Khelt                    |
| Iridescent      | Fur from a lightbender                                 | Hyrallic                 |
| Magic Resistance I | A scale from a dragon                               | The First Language       |
| Nettlebloom     | A rose from the enchanted hedge of a hag              | Khelt                    |
| Phasing I       | Ichor from a destroyed wraith                         | Szetch                   |
| Psionic Resistance I | Rare crystals that resonate with psionic energy, often found at sites of psionic experimentation | Voll                  |
| Swift           | The feather of a falcon slain as it was diving        | Yllyric                  |
| Tempest I       | A strip of starmetal struck by lightning              | Old Star Elf             |

- **Awe:** When you begin this project, choose either Charming or Threatening. If you choose Charming, you gain an edge on Presence tests to win other creatures over or make a good impression. If you choose Threatening, you gain an edge on Presence tests made to intimidate, coerce, or bully.

- **Damage Immunity I:** When you begin this project, select three damage types. You have immunity 5 to those damage types.

- **Disguise:** You can use a maneuver to cause this armor to appear as any type of clothing that you have been in the presence of—a noble’s dress, a guard’s uniform, a cultist’s robes, and so forth. The armor loses none of its protective qualities while transformed into other clothing.

- **Iridescent:** When you are the sole target of an ability, you can use a free triggered action to reveal that the ability was targeting an afterimage of you in the same space as you. The power roll for the ability is treated as an 11. You can’t use this enhancement again until you earn a Victory.

- **Magic Resistance I:** Whenever a creature targets you with a magic attack, they take a bane on the attack. You also gain an edge on resistance rolls made against magic effects.

- **Nettlebloom:** Whenever you are grabbed by a creature adjacent to you, your armor sprouts toxic nettles. While an adjacent creature has you grabbed, they are weakened.

- **Phasing I:** Once per turn, you can move through 1 square of solid matter. If you end your turn inside solid matter, you take 5 damage, which can’t be reduced in any way, and are shunted out into the space from which you entered it.

- **Psionic Resistance I:** Whenever a creature targets you with a psionic attack, they take a bane on the attack. You also gain an edge on resistance rolls made against psionic effects.

- **Swift:** Your speed increases by 1.

- **Tempest I:** As a maneuver, you can infuse this armor with the essence of a storm. The first time an adjacent creature makes an attack against you before the end of your next turn, they take 1 magic lightning damage and you can push them 1 square.

##### 5TH-LEVEL ARMOR ENHANCEMENT

- **Item Prerequisites:** Armor with a 1st-level enhancement; varies
- **Project Source:** Texts or lore in a language determined by the enhancement
- **Project Roll Characteristic:** Might, Reason, or Intuition
- **Project Goal:** 150

##### 5TH-LEVEL ARMOR ENHANCEMENTS

| Enhancement     | Item Prerequisite                                    | Project Source Language   |
|-----------------|-------------------------------------------------------|---------------------------|
| Absorption      | A mirror blessed by a priest of a god of magic       | The First Language        |
| Damage Immunity II | The essence of an elemental who is still alive    | Zaliac                    |
| Dragon Soul     | A scale from a dead dragon                           | Xakalliac                 |
| Levitating      | A palm-sized crystal grown in the subterranean lair of an overmind | Zaliac              |
| Magic Resistance II | A scale from a mature dragon                      | The First Language        |
| Phasing II      | The remnants of a slain ooze                          | Szetch                    |
| Psionic Resistance II | A fresh crystalline scale from a gemstone dragon | Voll                  |
| Reactive        | A complex, hand-engineered set of brass dwarven gears inscribed with runes in silver dust | Zaliac     |
| Second Wind     | The sweat of a troll                                  | Kalliak                   |
| Shattering      | A pound of volcanic obsidian, formed naturally as a single piece | Zaliac               |
| Tempest II      | The armor must be laid out under a clear sky as a comet passes over | Old Star Elf       |

- **Absorption:** Whenever you are targeted by a supernatural ability that targets only one creature, you can use a free triggered action to cause this armor to absorb the ability after the ability’s effects resolve. While the armor has an ability absorbed, you can’t absorb another. You can use an absorbed ability as if you knew it, making power rolls for the ability using your choice of Reason, Intuition, or Presence. You don’t need to spend any resources to activate the ability. Once you use the ability, the armor loses it, and you can absorb another.

- **Damage Immunity II:** The damage immunity conveyed by the armor increases to 10.

- **Dragon Soul:** When another creature causes you to be winded or dying, you can use a free triggered action to cause the soul of a dragon to emerge from this armor and hurtle toward the creature. Make the following power roll against the creature.
  - **Power Roll + Highest Characteristic:**
    - 11 or lower: 8 damage; push 3
    - 12–16: 12 damage; push 4
    - 17+: 15 damage; push 5

- **Levitating:** On your turn, you can treat up to 5 consecutive squares of movement as flying movement. If you are still in midair at the end of your turn, you fall prone.

- **Magic Resistance II:** Whenever a creature targets you with a magic attack, they have a double bane on the attack. You also have a double edge on resistance rolls made against magic effects.

- **Phasing II:** When you use the armor’s Phasing I enhancement, you can move through 3 squares of solid matter per turn.

- **Psionic Resistance II:** Whenever a creature targets you with a psionic attack, they have a double bane on the attack. You also have a double edge on resistance rolls made against psionic effects.

- **Reactive:** Whenever you take damage, you gain 1 action point until the start of your next turn. This benefit can be applied multiple times, and its effects stack.

- **Second Wind:** Whenever you become winded, you can use a free triggered action to spend a Recovery.

- **Shattering:** Whenever an enemy scores a critical hit against you, they take 1d6 psionic sonic damage.

- **Tempest II:** When you use the armor’s Tempest I enhancement, the affected creature takes 2d6 magic lightning damage and you push them up to 3 squares.

##### 9TH-LEVEL ARMOR ENHANCEMENT

- **Item Prerequisites:** Armor with a 5th-level enhancement; varies
- **Project Source:** Texts or lore in a language determined by the enhancement
- **Project Roll Characteristic:** Might, Reason, or Intuition
- **Project Goal:** 150

##### 9TH-LEVEL ARMOR ENHANCEMENTS

| Enhancement     | Item Prerequisite                                    | Project Source Language   |
|-----------------|-------------------------------------------------------|---------------------------|
| Devil’s Bargain | The wing of an archdevil                              | Anjal                     |
| Dragon Soul II  | An offering of gems, coins, and art stolen from a dragon’s hoard, sacrificed in ritual fire | Xakalliac            |
| Invulnerable    | Repurposed metal plates from a servok war engine     | Steel Dwarf               |
| Leyline Walker  | A cutting from an ethereal tree that manifests in the mundane world only once a year | Yllyric              |
| Life            | The tear of an angel                                 | Kuric                     |
| Magic Resistance III | A scale from an ancient dragon                  | The First Language        |
| Phasing III     | Perfectly clear glass from a house that disappeared into the Ethereal Plane | Szetch                 |
| Psionic Resistance III | The skull of a voiceless talker at least a century old | Voll                  |
| Temporal Flux   | An experimental temporal capacitor invented by the kuran’zoi | Voll                 |
| Unbending       | A spearhead or other weapon broken off in the body of a stone giant, and ossified for at least a year | Kuric            |

- **Devil’s Bargain:** Your movement gains the Fly keyword. Additionally, if an effect would make you prone while flying, you can choose not to go prone by losing Stamina equal to the distance you would have fallen from becoming prone.

- **Dragon Soul II:** While you are winded, your head transforms into a dragon’s head, and you gain the following ability:
  - **DRAGON’S FIRE**
    - **Keywords:** Area, Magic, Melee
    - **Type:** Action
    - **Distance:** 5 × 1 line within 1
    - **Target:** Each enemy in the line
    - **Power Roll + Highest Characteristic:**
      - 11 or lower: 5 fire damage
      - 12–16: 8 fire damage
      - 17+: 11 fire damage

- **Invulnerable:** You gain an edge on resistance rolls. Additionally, when a power roll made against you has a result of 11 or lower, you can ignore its damage and effects.

- **Leyline Walker:** Once per turn, you can spend any amount of your movement to instead teleport that distance.

- **Life:** Whenever you would die, you can spend a Recovery to regain Stamina instead. If you have no Recoveries to spend, you die.

- **Magic Resistance III:** The benefits of the armor’s Magic Resistance II enhancement extend to each ally within 3 squares of you.

- **Phasing III:** Your movement doesn’t provoke opportunity attacks, and you can move through enemy spaces. You can’t end your turn in an enemy’s space.

- **Psionic Resistance III:** The benefits of the armor’s Psionic Resistance II trait extend to each ally within 3 squares of you.

- **Temporal Flux:** Whenever you move out of a square, you can choose to leave an imprint behind that lasts until the end of the encounter, until your imprint takes 20 or more damage, or until you create a new imprint. The square is occupied by your imprint, and you can share that space with it. 
  - During your turn, you can teleport to the imprint’s space as a free maneuver. When you are targeted by an ability, you can use a free triggered action to teleport to your imprint, and the power roll for the ability is treated as an 11.

- **Unbending:** You can’t be subjected to forced movement unless you choose to be. Effects that ignore Stability also ignore this enhancement.

#### IMBUE IMPLEMENT

Implements are jewelry, orbs, staffs, tomes, wands, weapons, and other objects used by magic and psionic users to focus their power. You decide what object to imbue when you create an implement treasure, but it must be an object you can carry or wear. You must have a mundane version of the item you plan to imbue when you begin this project. An implement imbued with an enhancement grants you special benefits while it is wielded. Additionally, when an implement receives its 1st-level enhancement, it grants a +2 damage bonus for your damage-dealing magic and psionic abilities. A 5th-level enhancement increases the bonus to +4, and a 9th-level enhancement increases it to +6.

##### 1ST-LEVEL IMPLEMENT ENHANCEMENT

- **Item Prerequisites:** Varies
- **Project Source:** Texts or lore in a language determined by the enhancement
- **Project Roll Characteristic:** Agility, Reason, or Intuition
- **Project Goal:** 150

##### 1ST-LEVEL IMPLEMENT ENHANCEMENTS

| Enhancement   | Item Prerequisite                                         | Project Source Language   |
|---------------|------------------------------------------------------------|---------------------------|
| Berserking    | The tusk of a feral boar                                  | Kalliak                   |
| Displacing I  | Slime from an ooze                                        | Khelt                     |
| Elemental     | Ashes or other leavings from a natural disaster           | The First Language        |
| Forceful I    | A lead slingstone that killed a giant                     | Kuric                     |
| Rat Form      | One hundred rat pelts                                     | Khamish                   |
| Rejuvenating I| A singing quartz crystal                                  | The First Language        |
| Seeking       | An inch-long needle carved from a diamond                 | Caelian                   |
| Thought Sending | The brain of a psionic creature                         | Variac                    |
| Warding I     | Three skulls from the same chimera                        | Zaliac                    |

- **Berserking:** Whenever you damage a creature using a supernatural ability and obtain a tier 3 result on the power roll, that creature must make an opportunity attack against their nearest ally (if possible) after the ability’s effects resolve. This attack deals extra damage equal to the highest of your Reason, Intuition, or Presence scores.

- **Displacing I:** Whenever you damage a creature using a supernatural ability and obtain a tier 3 result on the power roll, you can teleport that creature up to 2 squares after the ability’s effects resolve. If the creature started on a horizontal surface, they must end on a horizontal surface.

- **Elemental:** Whenever you use an ability with the Air, Earth, Fire, Green, Rot, Void, or Water keyword, you can attune this implement to that element until the end of the encounter. While the implement is attuned, you gain an edge on power rolls with that elemental keyword. The implement can be attuned to only one element at a time.

- **Forceful I:** Whenever you use a supernatural ability to push or pull a creature, you can move that creature an additional 2 squares.

- **Rat Form:** As a maneuver, you can transform into a rat. Your equipment transforms with you. As a rat, you have a speed of 5 with the Climb keyword, your size is 1T, and you can see in the dark. You can speak and keep your skills while in rat form, but your Might becomes −5 and you lose all your regular abilities, features, and benefits. You can revert to your natural form as a maneuver, and do so automatically if you take any damage.

- **Rejuvenating I:** Whenever you use an ability that costs 1 or more Heroic Resources, roll a d10. On a 9 or higher, you gain 1 Heroic Resource.

- **Seeking:** Your ranged magic and psionic attacks gain a +2 distance bonus. Additionally, if you speak the name of a specific person, place, or object to the implement, the implement points toward that target, provided you are on the same world.

- **Thought Sending:** Your ranged magic and psionic attacks gain a +2 distance bonus. Additionally, you can telepathically speak with any willing creature who knows a language and whose name you know, provided they are on the same world as you. You must initiate the conversation, but once you do, the creature can respond until you end the conversation.

- **Warding I:** If your kit’s armor includes a ward, you gain a +6 Stamina bonus.

##### 5TH-LEVEL IMPLEMENT ENHANCEMENT

- **Item Prerequisites:** An implement with a 1st-level enhancement; varies
- **Project Source:** Texts or lore in a language determined by the enhancement
- **Project Roll Characteristic:** Agility, Reason, or Intuition
- **Project Goal:** 150

##### 5TH-LEVEL IMPLEMENT ENHANCEMENTS

| Enhancement   | Item Prerequisite                                         | Project Source Language   |
|---------------|------------------------------------------------------------|---------------------------|
| Celerity      | A dire falcon’s beak                                      | Khelt                     |
| Celestine     | A still-warm piece of a meteorite                         | Old Star Elf              |
| Displacing II | The wing of a pixie                                       | Voll                      |
| Erupting I    | Obsidian from an active volcano                           | Xakalliac                 |
| Forceful II   | A marble stone giant’s fingernail                         | Kuric                     |
| Hallucinatory | A night hag’s hair pin                                   | Variac                    |
| Lingering I   | Slow-acting poison refined from rare fungi                | Szetch                    |
| Rejuvenating II | A still-growing bonsai tree at least thirty years old   | The First Language        |
| Warding II    | A metallic dragon’s horn                                  | Zaliac                    |

- **Celerity:** Immediately after using a supernatural ability that requires an action, you can shift up to 3 squares, or you can use the Escape Grab maneuver as a free maneuver.

- **Celestine:** As an action, you conjure up to three stars, which hover in unoccupied squares of your choice within 5 squares of you. The stars remain in place, and disappear if you create more stars. When an enemy enters any star’s space, the star detonates and is destroyed, and the enemy takes 2d6 fire damage. You can also slide the enemy 1 square if they are within line of effect. Otherwise, the enemy slides 1 square in a random direction.

- **Displacing II:** When you use the implement’s Displacing I enhancement, you can teleport the creature up to 4 squares. Additionally, the creature takes a bane on their next power roll made before the end of their next turn.

##### 5TH-LEVEL IMPLEMENT ENHANCEMENTS (Continued)

- **Erupting I:** Whenever you damage a creature using a supernatural ability that targets only a single creature and obtain a tier 3 result on the power roll, each enemy within 2 squares of the creature takes 1d6 magic damage after the ability’s effects resolve.

- **Forceful II:** Whenever you use a supernatural ability to push or pull a creature, you can move that creature an additional 3 squares.

- **Hallucinatory:** As a maneuver, you create an area of sensory instability in a 2 aura centered on yourself. The area is difficult terrain for your enemies until the end of the encounter or until you are dying.

- **Lingering I:** Whenever you damage a creature using a supernatural ability and obtain a tier 3 result on the power roll, that creature takes 2d6 magic damage at the start of your next turn.

- **Rejuvenating II:** Whenever you use an ability that costs 1 or more Heroic Resources, roll a d10. On an 8 or higher, you gain 1 Heroic Resource, and you can spend a Recovery.

- **Warding II:** The Stamina bonus for the Warding I enhancement becomes +12. Additionally, you gain an edge on resistance rolls.

##### 9TH-LEVEL IMPLEMENT ENHANCEMENT

- **Item Prerequisites:** An implement with a 5th-level enhancement; varies
- **Project Source:** Texts or lore in a language determined by the enhancement
- **Project Roll Characteristic:** Agility, Reason, or Intuition
- **Project Goal:** 150

##### 9TH-LEVEL IMPLEMENT ENHANCEMENTS

| Enhancement   | Item Prerequisite                                         | Project Source Language   |
|---------------|------------------------------------------------------------|---------------------------|
| Anathema      | An olothec tentacle                                       | Variac                    |
| Displacing III| The keystone from a gate used for crossing between worlds | Voll                      |
| Erupting II   | A sealed geode containing explosive gas                   | Xakalliac                 |
| Forceful III  | A scale from the kraken                                   | Kuric                     |
| Lingering II  | A venom gland from a mature dragon                        | Szetch                    |
| Piercing      | Black iron harvested from a slain blood elemental         | Anjal                     |
| Psionic Siphon| The frontal lobe of an overmind                           | Variac                    |
| Rejuvenating III | A live flower that blooms only once a decade           | The First Language        |
| Warding III   | Heartwood from a two-hundred-year-old tree                | Zaliac                    |

- **Anathema:** Whenever you damage a creature using a supernatural ability and obtain a tier 3 result on the power roll, that creature is also weakened (save ends). If the creature is within 10 squares of you when this weakened effect ends, you can make a free strike against them as a free triggered action.

- **Displacing III:** When you use the implement’s Displacing I enhancement, you can teleport the creature up to 5 squares. Additionally, the creature then has a bane on their next power roll made before the end of their next turn.

- **Erupting II:** The fire damage dealt by the implement’s Erupting I enhancement increases to 3d6.

- **Forceful III:** Whenever you use a supernatural ability to push or pull a creature, you can move that creature an additional 3 squares, and that movement can be vertical.

- **Lingering II:** Whenever you damage a creature using a supernatural ability and obtain a tier 3 result on the power roll, that creature takes 3d6 magic damage at the start of your next turn.

- **Piercing:** Your supernatural abilities ignore damage immunity and 3d6 resistance.

- **Psionic Siphon:** Once per turn when you damage one or more creatures with a supernatural ability and obtain a tier 3 result on the power roll, you gain Stamina equal to your highest characteristic score, and one creature you damage takes 1d6 psychic damage.

- **Rejuvenating III:** Whenever you use an ability that costs 1 or more Heroic Resources, roll a d10. On a 7 or higher, you gain 1 Heroic Resource, and you or a creature of your choice within 3 squares of you can spend a Recovery.

- **Warding III:** The Stamina bonus for the Warding I enhancement becomes +18. Additionally, you and each ally within 3 squares of you gain an edge on resistance rolls.

#### IMBUE WEAPON

A weapon imbued with an enhancement grants you special benefits while it is wielded. Additionally, when a weapon receives its 1st-level enhancement, it grants a +2 damage bonus for your damage-dealing weapon abilities. A 5th-level enhancement increases the damage bonus to +4, and a 9th-level enhancement increases it to +6.

##### 1ST-LEVEL WEAPON ENHANCEMENT

- **Item Prerequisites:** Varies
- **Project Source:** Texts or lore in a language determined by the enhancement
- **Project Roll Characteristic:** Might, Reason, or Intuition
- **Project Goal:** 150

##### 1ST-LEVEL WEAPON ENHANCEMENTS

| Enhancement   | Item Prerequisite                                         | Project Source Language   |
|---------------|------------------------------------------------------------|---------------------------|
| Blood Bargain | The blood of a devil                                      | Anjal                     |
| Chilling I    | A piece of ice from Quintessence that never melts         | Yllyric                   |
| Disrupting I  | A vial of blood from a living saint                       | Anjal                     |
| Hungering I   | Stomach bile from a gnoll pack leader                     | Proto-Ctholl              |
| Hurling       | A magnet made from rare metals                            | Variac                    |
| Merciful      | A sprig of dockwart, a rare plant with natural anesthetic properties | Yllyric             |
| Terrifying I  | The preserved, intact amygdala of a mindkiller            | Variac                    |
| Thundering I  | The heart of a lion, bear, or other large predatory animal | Kuric                    |
| Vengeance I   | The crown of an usurper                                   | Kalliak                   |
| Wingbane      | A sprig of dockwart, a rare plant with natural anesthetic properties | Yllyric             |

- **Blood Bargain:** As a maneuver, you can harm yourself with the weapon, taking 1d6 damage that can’t be reduced in any way. An ally within 5 squares can then spend a Recovery.

- **Chilling I:** Whenever you damage a creature using this weapon and obtain a tier 3 result on the power roll, that creature takes 1d6 psionic cold damage.

- **Disrupting I:** Whenever you damage an undead using this weapon and leave that undead with 15 Stamina or less, they drop to 0 Stamina.

- **Hungering I:** Whenever you damage a creature other than yourself using this weapon, you regain Stamina based on the tier result of the power roll—3 Stamina for tier 1, 5 for tier 2, and 8 for tier 3. You can’t regain this Stamina if you’re dying.

- **Hurling:** Whenever you use an ability with a distance of reach using this weapon, you can throw the weapon by treating the ability’s distance as Ranged 3 instead. When the ability is resolved, the weapon returns to your hand. Any ability used when you throw this weapon can’t impose the grabbed or restrained conditions.

- **Merciful:** Whenever you reduce a non-undead creature to 0 Stamina using this weapon, the creature falls unconscious and wakes up 1d6 hours later. A creature with the Heal skill can wake the unconscious creature early with 1 minute of medical treatment. Whenever the creature wakes, they regain 1 Stamina.

- **Terrifying I:** Whenever you damage a creature using this weapon and obtain a tier 3 result on the power roll, that creature takes 1d6 psionic psychic damage.

- **Thundering I:** Whenever you damage a creature using this weapon, you can push that creature up to 2 squares after the other effects of the ability resolve.

- **Vengeance I:** Whenever you use this weapon to attack a creature who has dealt damage to you since the end of your last turn, you gain 1d6 bonus damage on the attack.

- **Wingbane:** Whenever you damage a flying creature using this weapon, that creature is also bleeding (save ends). While bleeding in this way, the creature takes 1 damage per square they fly. If the creature starts and ends their turn on the same solid surface, the bleeding condition ends.

##### 5TH-LEVEL WEAPON ENHANCEMENT

- **Item Prerequisites:** A weapon with a 1st-level enhancement; varies
- **Project Source:** Texts or lore in a language determined by the enhancement
- **Project Roll Characteristic:** Might, Reason, or Intuition
- **Project Goal:** 150

##### 5TH-LEVEL WEAPON ENHANCEMENTS

| Enhancement   | Item Prerequisite                                         | Project Source Language   |
|---------------|------------------------------------------------------------|---------------------------|
| Chargebreaker | An adamantine spearhead                                   | Zaliac                    |
| Chilling II   | Frozen bones from the lair of a white dragon              | Yllyric                   |
| Devastating   | A slaughter demon’s horn                                  | Kuric                     |
| Disrupting II | A cutting from a century-old living tree in a graveyard   | Anjal                     |
| Hungering II  | A fang from a slain vampire, crushed and mixed with the blood of the creature imbuing the item | Proto-Ctholl       |
| Metamorphic   | Oil from an olothec’s liver                               | Variac                    |
| Silencing     | An executioner’s hood worn during the execution of a mage | The First Language        |
| Terrifying II | Riverbed silt harvested from the Abyssal Wasteland        | Variac                    |
| Thundering II | An iron rod charged by the death throes of an essence of storms | Kuric               |
| Vengeance II  | The remains of a sworn foe of the creature imbuing the item | Kalliak              |

- **Chargebreaker:** While you wield this weapon, you have the following ability.

###### STOP RIGHT THERE

**Their momentum, your impact.**

- **Keywords:** Attack, Melee, Weapon
- **Type:** Free Triggered Action
- **Distance:** Melee 1
- **Target:** 1 enemy
- **Trigger:** The target moves into a space adjacent to you.

**Effect:** The target takes 1d6 damage.

- **Chilling II:** Whenever you damage a creature using this weapon and obtain a tier 3 result on the power roll, that creature takes 2d6 psionic cold damage and is slowed (save ends).

- **Devastating:** Whenever you make an ability roll using this weapon, the number you need to roll to score a critical hit is reduced by 1.

- **Disrupting II:** Whenever you damage an undead using this weapon and leave that undead with 30 Stamina or less, they drop to 0 Stamina.

- **Hungering II:** Whenever you damage a creature other than yourself using this weapon, you regain Stamina based on the tier result of the power roll—4 Stamina for tier 1, 10 Stamina for tier 2, and 15 Stamina for tier 3. You can’t regain this Stamina if you’re dying.

- **Metamorphic:** You can change this weapon’s shape and form as a maneuver, granting one of the following benefits of your choice:
  - **Concealed:** The weapon shrinks to the size of a piece of jewelry and can be worn as an earring, necklace, or similar accessory. While in this form, the weapon can’t be used for weapon abilities.
  - **Defensive:** While you wield the weapon, you gain 1d6 resistance.
  - **Large:** The distance of abilities using this weapon increases by 1 for melee abilities, or by 3 for ranged abilities.
  - **Vicious:** Whenever you damage a creature using this weapon, you deal 1 extra damage on a tier 1 result, 2 extra damage on a tier 2 result, and 3 extra damage on a tier 3 result.

- **Silencing:** Whenever you damage a creature using this weapon and obtain a tier 3 result on the power roll, that creature also can’t use magic abilities until the end of its turn (EoT).

- **Terrifying II:** Whenever you damage a creature using this weapon and obtain a tier 3 result on the power roll, that creature takes 2d6 psionic psychic damage and is frightened (save ends).

- **Thundering II:** Whenever you damage a creature using this weapon, you can push that creature up to 4 squares after the other effects of the ability resolve. If you obtained a tier 3 result on the power roll for the ability, the creature is also knocked prone after being pushed.

- **Vengeance II:** Whenever you use this weapon to attack a creature who has dealt damage to you since the end of your last turn, you have a double edge on the attack.

##### 9TH-LEVEL WEAPON ENHANCEMENT

- **Item Prerequisites:** A weapon with a 5th-level enhancement; varies
- **Project Source:** Texts or lore in a language determined by the enhancement
- **Project Roll Characteristic:** Might, Reason, or Intuition
- **Project Goal:** 150

##### 9TH-LEVEL WEAPON ENHANCEMENTS

| Enhancement   | Item Prerequisite                                         | Project Source Language   |
|---------------|------------------------------------------------------------|---------------------------|
| Chilling III  | The weapon must be dipped in the Glacial Forge in the coldest depths of Hell | Yllyric               |
| Disrupting III| Wrappings from a mummy buried at least a century ago      | Anjal                     |
| Draining      | The intact, still-thinking brain of a voiceless talker    | Voll                      |
| Hungering III | A bottle of wine from Aurumvas’s hoard                    | Proto-Ctholl              |
| Imprisoning   | A chain once used to restrain an angel                    | Anjal                     |
| Nova          | A piece of metal touched by a sun                         | Old Star Elf              |
| Terrifying III| The central eye of an overmind                            | Variac                    |
| Thundering III| An oracle of storms must willingly bless the weapon with lightning while it is being wielded, and its wielder must survive this trial | Kuric            |
| Vengeance III | The true name of a devil who hunts other devils           | Kalliak                   |
| Windcutting   | A feather from a bird, once thought extinct, who dwells at the eye of an ever-whirling tornado | Yllyric             |

- **Chilling III:** Whenever you damage a creature using this weapon and obtain a tier 3 result on the power roll, that creature takes 3d6 psionic cold damage and is slowed (save ends).

- **Disrupting III:** Whenever you damage an undead using this weapon and leave that undead with 50 Stamina or less, they immediately drop to 0 Stamina. If you instead leave the undead with 100 Stamina or less, they are frightened (save ends).

- **Draining:** Whenever you damage a creature using this weapon and obtain a tier 3 result on the power roll, that creature is also weakened (save ends). For each creature currently weakened by this weapon, attacks made with the weapon gain 1d6 damage.

- **Hungering III:** Whenever you damage a creature other than yourself using this weapon, you regain Stamina based on the tier result of the power roll—5 Stamina for tier 1, 12 for tier 2, or 20 for tier 3. Additionally, while you are dying, you gain an edge on attacks.

- **Imprisoning:** Whenever you damage a creature using this weapon and obtain a tier 3 result on the power roll, that creature is also restrained (save ends). While restrained in this way, the creature can’t use supernatural abilities.

- **Nova:** Whenever you damage a creature using this weapon, each enemy within 1 square of you takes damage equal to the tier result of the power roll.

- **Nova:** 
  - **I am an eternal flame, baby!**
  - **Keywords:** Area, Magic, Melee
  - **Type:** Action
  - **Distance:** 3 burst
  - **Target:** All enemies
  - **Power Roll + Highest Characteristic:**
    - 11 or lower: 7 fire damage
    - 12–16: 11 fire damage
    - 17+: 16 fire damage

- **Terrifying III:** Whenever you damage a creature using this weapon and obtain a tier 3 result on the power roll, that creature takes 3d6 psionic psychic damage and is frightened (save ends).

- **Thundering III:** Whenever you damage a creature or object using this weapon, after the other effects of the ability resolve, you can vertically push that creature up to 5 squares and knock them prone. If the creature takes or deals damage as a result of this movement, they take 1d6 magic thunder damage.

- **Vengeance III:** Whenever you use this weapon to attack a creature who has dealt damage to you since the end of your last turn, you have a double edge on the attack. If you obtain a tier 3 result on the power roll, the creature is also bleeding (save ends). Additionally, each time you take damage, your speed increases by 1 until the end of your next turn.

- **Windcutting:** Whenever you use a melee signature ability that normally targets one creature, you can take a bane on the ability to target each enemy in a 3-cube area within distance. If your signature ability would normally cause its target to become grabbed or restrained, each target in the area is instead slowed (EoT).

## CRAFTING AND RESEARCH EVENTS PROMPTS

| d100 | Prompt                                                                                                                                                             |
|------|--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| 01–02 | After the roll, a thief who wants the project source or an item needed for the project approaches the hero and pretends to be someone who wants to help. The thief might want to sell the project source or item, or use it to accomplish the same project as the hero. |
| 03–04 | Before the roll, a traveler in need of food, shelter, or some other necessity happens upon the heroes and asks for their help. If the heroes show kindness, the traveler reveals themselves to be an artisan or sage who can help with the project. With the characters’ permission, the traveler can contribute one project roll to the project with a +3 modifier. |
| 05–06 | Before the roll, an NPC who is already friendly with the heroes and has helped them before asks the heroes to let them join the project. The NPC explains that they need the project source or the object being crafted for a personal matter of great importance (saving someone’s life, righting a great wrong, and so forth). The NPC can contribute one project roll during the current respite with a +3 modifier, but the party must commit to letting the NPC use the finished project before the party can do so. |
| 07–08 | After the roll, the hero receives a mysterious note from a person who wants to exchange a magic item or other reward for the project source when the project is complete. The buyer could be someone with their own interest in a similar project, an enemy eager to exploit what the hero is working on, or a superfan who wants to emulate the hero. |
| 09–10 | Before the roll, a pest begins devouring important components of the project. This could be rats gnawing at alchemical components, moths eating rare silks, mites devouring a printed project source, and so forth. If the pests aren’t dealt with quickly, some of the components will need to be replaced. |
| 11–12 | Before the roll, a powerful supernatural entity sends an agent or premonition to the hero, offering them knowledge that will let them complete the project immediately. In exchange, the hero must agree to do a favor for the entity, which might not be specified at the time of the bargain. |
| 13–14 | Before the roll, a rumor arises that the project is being worked on in service to an evil entity. People start showing up to the heroes’ place of respite, demanding that they repent their wicked ways. If the rumors aren’t disproved, the locals form a mob to stop the heroes. |
| 15–16 | Before the roll, the hero’s rival comes to visit and shows off a guide for the project. The rival is willing to hand the guide over ... provided the hero publicly humiliates themselves by proclaiming that the rival is their better. |
| 17–18 | The project source is cursed. Before the roll, the hero must succeed on a hard Intuition test or become obsessed with the project. Until the project is complete, the hero can’t use Victories to increase their heroic resources. The curse can be broken by slaying the creature who created it or by finding a priest to perform a holy ritual over the project source. |
| 19–20 | Before the roll, the hero finds that a significant amount of the project has been completed by a group of fairies. The fairies might have completed the job out of boredom, or they might want something from the hero in return. |
| 21–22 | After the roll, the hero realizes that the project source contains only half the information they need, and they must find the rest of the information to complete the project. |
| 23–24 | After the roll, the hero discovers a new bit of knowledge or a technique that allows them to immediately start and finish a second project with a project goal of 50 or lower. |
| 25–26 | Before the roll, the hero finds that someone has attempted to sabotage their project, resulting in damage to notes, the project source, or crafting components. The damage is negligible, but the person responsible will strike again to worse effect if not discovered. |
| 27–28 | Before the roll, the project source is found to hold additional information, letting the hero treat the project roll as an automatic breakthrough. The note could have been left by a helpful visitor, or by someone who wants the hero’s work to be finished for their own gain. |
| 29–30 | After the roll, the project draws the attention of a devil, who tries to subtly change the project source from the Seven Cities of Hell. If the hero doesn’t notice, the devil is summoned the next time the hero makes a project roll, with goals of the Director’s determination. |
| 31–32 | Before the roll, the hero stumbles upon a tool, expert, or book that helps them with the project, letting them treat the project roll as an automatic breakthrough. |
| 33–34 | After the roll, the project source suddenly becomes impossible to understand. A psionic NPC has used a mighty power to obscure or corrupt the project source to prevent a potential catastrophe they foresaw. If the heroes can help prevent the catastrophe in another way, the NPC will end the effect. |
| 35–36 | After the roll, the hero discovers that the project source contains a piece of helpful knowledge unrelated to the current project. |
| 37–38 | Before the roll, the hero learns that several sages working on similar projects have all mysteriously disappeared. Someone or something is abducting these experts for a nefarious purpose … and the hero could be next! |
| 39–40 | After the roll, a group of scholars approaches the hero and asks if they can review the project source, promising to help the hero complete the project in return. If the hero accepts, the scholars take the project source until the end of the hero’s next respite. Three of the scholars then contribute project rolls during the following respite, each with a +3 modifier. |
| 41–42 | After the roll, a physical project source or crafting components come to life and begin attacking the hero. Magic within these items has become corrupted! If the hero can fix the corruption without destroying the items, the project is saved, but doing so requires a special ritual. |
| 43–44 | After the roll, an otherworldly specter appears and warns the hero not to complete the project, explaining that they died attempting the same project and are now attached to the project source. If the hero can convince the spirit that they will not die similarly, the creature shares their knowledge, contributing one project roll to the project with a +3 modifier. |
| 45–46 | Before the roll, the servants of a dragon appear and demand that the hero hand over the project source. If the hero refuses, the servants warn that the dragon will come to claim the project source for itself. |
| 47–48 | Before the roll, the hero notices a contract written on a physical project source or accompanying other materials that appears only under certain conditions (in the presence of magic, in the light of a full moon, and so forth). The contract promises that anyone who signs it in blood will receive the true and full answer to three questions in exchange for a week of service to the hag Corrine Withersnipe. The hag appears instantly if the contract is signed. |
| 49–50 | After the roll, an unexpected total eclipse of the sun occurs, lasting one hour. Once per respite, when any creature makes another project roll for the project, another eclipse occurs and lasts twice as long as the previous one. Some folk take this phenomenon as a sign of impending doom that will descend when the project is completed. Others believe that a powerful enemy is merely trying to scare the heroes into not finishing the project. |
| 51–52 | Before the roll, the hero gets a visit from an NPC whom they helped in the past. The NPC has found a guide that relates to the project and gives it to the hero as a gift of thanks. |
| 53–54 | After the roll, a local officer of the law appears and tells the hero to stop working on their project. The nature of the hero’s project has just become outlawed in the region, and the constable insists on locking up the project source and arresting anyone who gets in the way. |
| 55–56 | Before the roll, the hero determines that the research or crafting they are planning requires only part of their attention. They can either make two project rolls for their current project or make one for that project and one for another project. |
| 57–58 | After the roll, a component or tool the hero is using for the project suddenly reveals itself to be magic or psionic as it starts to hum with energy and glow red hot. If the item isn’t quickly cooled, it explodes, and work on the project can’t continue until a replacement is found. |
| 59–60 | Before the roll, the hero realizes they’re at a critical point in the project and can achieve more if they just shave off a few hours of rest. By choosing to lose some sleep, the character can make two project rolls for the project, but when they end the current respite, they do so with one fewer Recoveries than usual. |
| 61–62 | Before the roll, a sage approaches the hero and offers to help with the project. The NPC isn’t really a sage, however—they’re an assassin hoping to catch the hero off guard. |
| 63–64 | Before the roll, a sage approaches the hero and offers to help with the project. However, the NPC is secretly a bard who wishes to compose a song about the hero’s deeds. The NPC tries to ingratiate themselves to the hero while contributing nothing to the actual project. |
| 65–66 | After the roll, a physical project source or a component of the project creates an unstable portal to another world related to the nature of the project. A group of tiny devils, elementals, or other creatures start clawing their way out of the item, causing mischief. |
| 67–68 | After the roll, the hero realizes that the project source also holds information regarding the location of another project source or items needed for another project the hero or one of their allies wants to pursue. |
| 69–70 | Before the roll, a group of enemies working for the campaign's villain attacks the hero, intent on destroying as much of the project’s research material and other resources as possible. |
| 71–72 | Before the roll, a storm moves into the area that threatens to persist until the project is completed. The closer to completion the hero gets, the more violent the storm becomes. The storm might be conscious or controlled by someone opposing the hero. |
| 73–74 | After the roll, the hero falls asleep and completes the project in their dreams, but cannot access that progress while awake. The hero must find a way to physically enter their dreams to retrieve the completed project. |
| 75–76 | Before the roll, a band of goblins barges in on the hero. If the hero has been fighting goblins recently, the goblins try to steal the research materials. Otherwise, they are mostly curious and willing to help if the hero explains the project. |
| 77–78 | After the roll, the hero watches as the project progress reverses, as if moving backward through time. A chronomantic anomaly causes the loss, and progress continues to diminish until the anomaly is resolved. Fixing it restores lost progress. |
| 79–80 | Before the roll, the hero hears a voice beckoning them into the wode to work on their project. While in the wode, progress triples, but the hero feels increasingly compelled to stay there forever. |
| 81–82 | After the roll, the hero learns of an expert a day's travel away who can complete the project and also provide materials for another hero’s project. |
| 83–84 | Before the roll, a fire rips through the research materials, threatening the entire project. If the hero extinguishes the fire, they discover hidden notes that double progress from that point forward. |
| 85–86 | After the roll, a skald approaches the hero and offers to make the project more exciting by narrating the hero’s progress, prompting another roll. If the second roll is lower, the result is subtracted; if equal or higher, it's added to the original roll. |
| 87–88 | Before the roll, the hero's rival seeks help on their own project. If the hero agrees, they roll toward the rival’s project, and the Director rolls toward the hero’s project. |
| 89–90 | After the roll, the hero finishes early and can either relax or carouse with allies. Those who join the hero gain 10 temporary Stamina for the next encounter. |
| 91–92 | Before the roll, a wagoneer needs help fixing their wagon. If the hero helps, they learn that the wagoneer is allied with the campaign’s villain. The wagoneer will refuse to fight the hero in any future encounter. |
| 93–94 | After the roll, the project materials vanish into thin air. Investigation reveals footprints leading away and traces of gnoll hair. |
| 95–96 | After the roll, the hero suddenly fails to comprehend the research materials. Leaving the project alone for two respites restores comprehension, allowing the next roll to be an automatic breakthrough. |
| 97–98 | Before the roll, one of the hero’s materials shrinks and gets pulled into a mousehole by radenwrights, who want the materials for their own project. They are open to negotiation if the hero approaches peacefully. |
| 99–100 | No time to roll. An elemental springs from the materials and challenges the hero to a duel. Surviving three rounds alone completes the project; fleeing, unconsciousness, or ally intervention results in the elemental destroying the materials. |

## RESEARCH PROJECTS

Heroes can undertake the following research projects, which require the study of documents, spycraft, or interviewing experts. Unless a project has a complication table or entry of its own, research projects use the Crafting and Research Events Prompts table for event prompts.

### DISCOVER LORE

**Item Prerequisite:** None  
**Project Source:** Texts or knowledge related to the subject you wish to research  
**Project Roll Characteristic:** Reason  
**Project Goal:** Varies (see the table)  

If you want to track the location of a lost treasure, decipher a ritual, or trace the lineage of a royal family to find the next heir to the throne, you can start a project to delve into whatever mysteries you seek to unravel. You might start a project to discover lore because the information can’t be discovered through a regular test, or you could do so because you failed a test to recall information and now want to learn it through research.

When you start a project to discover lore, you choose the lore you want investigated and the questions you want answered. The Director tells you if the lore you seek amounts to common, obscure, lost, or forbidden knowledge. The more esoteric the knowledge, the more project points are required to find the answers you seek. When you begin a Discover Lore project, other creatures can also work on the project, using their respite activity to contribute a project roll to it in order to get the work done faster.

#### DISCOVER LORE PROJECT GOALS

| Project Goal          | Points Required |
|-----------------------|-----------------|
| Common knowledge      | 15              |
| Obscure knowledge     | 45              |
| Lost knowledge        | 120             |
| Forbidden knowledge   | 240             |

#### COMMON KNOWLEDGE

Common knowledge is generally easy to discover with a day or so of research. It’s not known by every passerby and takes time to uncover, but with plentiful local sources for the information, you don’t need to spend a lot of time searching. It could be that you need to question several members of a rumor mill to figure out who a noble is not-so-secretly courting, or you might need to spend a few hours in a temple to find the particular religious text that carries a seldom-used alternative name for a deity.

#### OBSCURE KNOWLEDGE

Obscure knowledge is known only to specialized sages and is typically of interest only to those scholars. As such, precious few tomes are written on obscure subjects. Finding the right expert to interview or the best book to read typically requires several days of research. Uncovering the details of a ritual used to open and close a portal to the Sea of Stars isn’t easy information to come by, but there are people out there who know how to do it—and who wrote the instructions down.

#### LOST KNOWLEDGE

Lost knowledge is so esoteric that even among a field’s most dedicated scholars, there might be only one or two individuals who have dug deep enough to know that lore. Lost knowledge could come from a time so long ago that only a single text in a dead language now holds the lore you seek. Such lore often takes more than a week to hunt down. The location of a legendary steel dwarf’s workshop is most likely lore that is lost—except for one map hidden in a private collection.

#### FORBIDDEN KNOWLEDGE

Forbidden knowledge is lore that a powerful individual or organization is attempting to keep secret. Those who know the secrets speak of them in whispered codes after passwords are exchanged, and write texts using ciphers. Hunting down leads and making sense of them typically takes weeks. The location of the dagger that slit the throat of the god of death is hidden behind layers of encoded text, and written in a dead language known only to that god’s most devout followers.

### GO UNDERCOVER

**Item Prerequisites:** Special  
**Project Source:** None  
**Project Roll Characteristic:** Intuition or Presence  
**Project Goal:** 15  

Going undercover to spy on a group of people is a cheap and easy way to find what you’re looking for. Choose an organization when you undertake this activity. Completing this project grants you access to maps, knowledge about an organization’s operations, or some other piece of knowledge that would be considered common or obscure (see the Discover Lore project). At the Director’s discretion, you must have a disguise, signet ring, tattoo, or some other indication that you belong to the organization in order to begin this project. Additionally, the Director can decide that the knowledge you seek may not be gained through this project but rather through adventuring.

**Complications:** This project has its own special complications. The first time you complete this project within an organization, you have a 25% chance of being caught. Each time you complete this project with the same organization, the chance of you being caught the next time you use it within the same organization increases by 25% and the project goal increases by 30. If you are caught going undercover, you are ruthlessly pursued by the organization you were infiltrating. While your secret is safe, you may be called upon by the organization to complete a task you may not want to do. Failure to complete the task leads to you being caught.

### HONE CAREER SKILLS

**Item Prerequisite:** None  
**Project Source:** None
**Project Roll Characteristic:** Intuition  
**Project Goal:** 240 if your career granted you two skills, or 360 if your career granted you three skills  

You revisit your previous life and freshen up on the experience it provided you. When the project is complete, you have an edge on tests made with the skills provided by your career.

#### HONE CAREER SKILLS EVENTS PROMPTS

| d10 | Prompt                                                                                                                                                             |
|-----|--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| 1   | Before the roll, an old colleague from the hero’s past asks the hero if they would give up adventuring and come back to their old career. If the hero reaffirms their current role of being a hero, they gain a hero token. However, the project goal increases by 50 points, as their old colleague refuses to help them. |
| 2   | After the roll, the hero gets hurt on the job. They end the respite with 1 Recovery fewer than their maximum.                                                     |
| 3   | Before the roll, the hero stumbles upon an individual seeking guidance about entering the same career as the hero. If the hero forgoes their project roll to help the individual out, the individual becomes one of the hero’s followers. The director determines if they are an artisan or a sage depending on the type of career the hero is attending to.  |
| 4   | After the roll, the hero finds inspiration from their old life that helps out with another project that they or another hero is currently working on. The project owner of the second project can immediately make a project roll for this second project. |
| 5   | Before the roll, the hero stumbles into a negative aspect of their career that they forgot was particularly grueling. If the result of the project roll is 11 or lower, it is halved.  |
| 6   | After the roll, the hero learns rumors of a treasure of the Director’s choice that other members of the hero’s previous career are seeking. The hero automatically determines where the treasure waits when they complete this project if they don’t seek it ahead of time.  |
| 7   | Before the roll, a vaguely familiar stranger in the same career field asks if they could work with the hero on their project. If the hero accepts their help, the hero can add 2d10 + 2 to the project roll. Afterwards, the hero realizes the stranger works for the campaign’s villain or believes in their motive. |
| 8   | After the roll, the hero feels younger (about 5 years). A creature familiar with psionics would recognize the phenomena as a chrono-anomaly. The hero grows younger each time they make progress on the project, ceasing to exist if they complete the project, until the hero finds and stops the source of the anomaly. |
| 9   | Before the roll, the hero stumbles upon an old memento from when they actively worked within this career. They can choose between having an automatic breakthrough on the project roll or gaining a Hero token.  |
| 10  | After the roll, the hero starts getting back into the rhythm of their old career. They can roll 2 additional project rolls.  |

### LEARN FROM A MASTER

**Item Prerequisite:** None  
**Project Source:** An NPC with a higher level and the same class as you or another class with an ability you wish to learn, or texts of their teachings in a language you know  
**Project Roll Characteristic:** Your highest characteristic  
**Project Goal:** Varies (see Master Teaching Project Goals table)  

When you start a project with a master, you choose the goal you wish to work on as well as the benefit you would gain from it. The Director tells you if it is within the master’s ability to teach you what you’re looking for. Alternatively, you may stumble upon the left-behind teachings of a master, and learning from them may fit into one of the following goals.

#### MASTER TEACHING PROJECT GOALS

| Project Goal     | Points Required |
|------------------|-----------------|
| Hone Ability     | 120             |
| Improve Control  | 500             |
| Acquire Ability  | 1,000           |

#### HONE ABILITY

You sharpen the potency of one of your abilities of your choice. Choose between adding a +1/+1/+1 damage bonus to the ability or improving the distance of a ranged ability by 2. An ability can only be honed this way once.

#### IMPROVE CONTROL

You’ve learned efficient use of one of your heroic abilities. Reduce its initial heroic resource cost by 1 (to a minimum of 1). An ability can only receive this benefit once.

#### ACQUIRE ABILITY

If your master’s class is different than yours, they give you a taste of another way. You gain one Signature Ability from the master’s class. You can’t gain another from their class.

#### LEARN FROM A MASTER EVENTS PROMPTS

| d10 | Prompt                                                                                                                                                             |
|-----|--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| 1   | After the roll, the hero experiences a revelation and all their training snaps into place. The hero rolls two additional project rolls for this project.            |
| 2   | Before the roll, your master has died mid-way through training, or the manuscript is found to be incomplete.                                                      |
| 3   | Before the roll, while the master is adept at the skill taught in this lesson, they are less adept at teaching that skill. The project requires an additional 50 project points to complete.  |
| 4   | Before the roll, the master requires your aid with manual labor before your training can begin. The hero must spend this respite completing the requirement, earning a hero token for their efforts instead of making the project roll.  |
| 5   | Before the roll, the master’s training regime is grueling. The hero rolls an additional 1d10 project points during this respite, but when their respite finishes, they lose a Recovery.  |
| 6   | After the roll, the mentor’s relationship with the master deepens. In addition to the current project, the master provides information relevant to the hero’s goals, another project, or a surprising connection to a mystery from the hero’s past.  |
| 7   | Before the roll, the hero discovers that the master has been working with an enemy of the hero by covertly providing them information about the hero’s activities. The hero can continue learning from the master, but risks exposing the party to danger by doing so.  |
| 8   | After the roll, an accident, fire, or other natural disaster disrupts the hero’s training during this Respite. They gain half the project points rolled, but if they act to stop the event, their act of heroism raises their Renown by 1.  |
| 9   | After the roll, the master gifts the hero with the item prerequisite for an item they wish to craft or a consumable.  |
| 10  | After the roll, the hero uncovers a secret in their studies, something the master had never anticipated, or the manuscript had clearly not covered. The project goal is halved.  |

### LEARN NEW LANGUAGE

**Item Prerequisite:** None  
**Project Source:** Texts or instruction that teach the language you want to learn  
**Project Roll Characteristic:** Reason or Intuition  
**Project Goal:** 120  

When you start this project, choose a language taught by the project source. When the project is complete, you understand the language.

### LEARN NEW RECIPE

**Item Prerequisites:** Varies (see Recipe table)  
**Project Source:** Recipe in a language you know or a cook tutor  
**Project Roll Characteristic:** Intuition or Reason (+3 if it’s a recipe from your Culture)  
**Project Goal:** 100  

You practice being able to reliably follow a recipe for a dish. The ingredients required depend on the recipe being followed, which may be easier or harder to acquire based on the degrees of separation you have from the recipe’s origin. When you complete this project, you can make 5 servings of the specific recipe as a respite activity whenever you have access to the ingredients. You and each creature taking a respite with you can consume a serving and gain its benefits until they take another respite. A creature can only benefit from one recipe at a time and can’t benefit from more than one serving of a recipe at a time.

#### RECIPES

| Project        | Item Prerequisites               | Benefits               |
|----------------|----------------------------------|------------------------|
| Modern         | Common Ingredients (e.g., flour, carrots, beef) | Hearty |
| Vintage or Home | Key Ingredients (e.g., starfruit, kindleseeds, oarfish) | Comforting |
| Ancient or Lost | Rare/Extinct Ingredients (e.g., honeylilies, steel apples) | Supernatural Power |

#### RECIPE BENEFITS

- **Comforting:** When you fail a saving throw, you can choose to succeed instead. This benefit then disappears.  
- **Hearty:** You gain 1 additional Recovery.  
- **Supernatural Power:** You increase the value of one of your characteristic scores by 1. This can increase your characteristics to 6.  

## OTHER PROJECTS

Not all heroes want to craft or research during their time between adventures. Some wish to build organizations, reconnect with family, or just simply go fishing.  
*(Playtest Note: Many of these activities don’t have event prompts right now, but they will. More activities like this are coming.)*

### COMMUNITY SERVICE

**Item Prerequisite:** None  
**Project Source:** None  
**Project Roll Characteristic:** Varies  
**Project Goal:** 75  

When you begin this project, you must be in a settlement or other place where people gather, and you must be in that place each time you make a project roll for the project. You can undertake several Community Service projects, each one in a different community.

While undertaking this project, you provide help to people in need, doing odd jobs, tutoring life skills, cleaning statues...

#### COMMUNITY SERVICE EVENTS PROMPTS

| d10 | Prompt                                                                                                                                                             |
|-----|--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| 1   | After the roll, your service is recognized by the local nobility or authorities. Upon completion of the project, the hero’s Renown increases by 1.                |
| 2   | Before the roll, a mysterious force hinders the work in an unfortunate way. If it’s a construction project, tools go missing. Tutoring materials vanish. Cleaning supplies turn up already filthy. The hero can’t continue the project until the culprit is found: a maligned devil or spirit connected to their past.  |
| 3   | Before the roll, the community is so excited by the project that they join to lend a hand. The project gains an automatic breakthrough.                           |
| 4   | After the roll, a sympathetic NPC, perhaps a friend or ally from the community or from the hero’s past, offers to help this Respite. If the hero accepts the help, they gain a +3 to the roll.  |
| 5   | Before the roll, the project has unearthed a previously lost detail within the community, like a boarded-up alleyway, a hidden cellar passage, or a surprising detail on a statue or civic monument. The local authorities take a keen interest in this, as it relates to an old mystery in the area. The hero can investigate this mystery with them if they choose.  |
| 6   | After the roll, a seemingly benign action taken by the hero has caused a magic bad luck curse to descend on the hero. Until they break the enchantment, the value of all project rolls they make are halved as they’re hindered by the curse.  |
| 7   | After the roll, a saint blesses the hero’s work. The hero feels supernaturally rejuvenated by civic contribution and gains an additional Recovery when they finish the respite that lasts until the end of their next respite. If the character is a conduit, they also experience a breakthrough.  |
| 8   | Before the roll, the hero uncovers a peaceful radenwight warren that heartily objects to the work being done around their entrance. The hero must negotiate with their leader in order to continue the project.  |
| 9   | Before the roll, a local malcontent has turned their focus on the hero and roused the people against them. The hero must either contend with the crowds (losing the benefit of the Respite) or find the malcontent and win them over before proceeding.  |
| 10  | Before the roll, a thief, assassin, or other criminal finds this project, or the hero attempting to complete it, worth assisting. They’re able to throw in an additional 50 points of aid towards the completion of the project, so long as the hero looks the other way should they cross paths again.  |

### FISHING

**Item Prerequisites:** None  
**Project Source:** None  
**Project Roll Characteristic:** Agility, Reason, or Intuition  
**Project Goal:** Varies  

You’ve gone fishing, provided you are near a body of water. The project roll for this project has the following changes:

- The points you roll represent the length of the fish (or fish-like creature) you catch.
- During each respite when you undertake this activity, you continue making project rolls until you get an 11 or lower (fish got away, earning you no points) or a breakthrough.
- A breakthrough results in rolling on the fishing events table instead of additional points or another project roll.

When you finish rolling, you can spend the points you earned on a reward from the Tackle table. Any points you don’t spend during this respite activity are lost.

#### TACKLE

| Reward         | Cost  | Effect                                                                                                                                         |
|----------------|-------|-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| Hearty Meal (1 serving) | 50   | A serving of this meal gives the eater 1 additional Recovery that lasts until their next respite. A creature can only benefit from 1 serving of this meal or another (like from the Learn a New Recipe project) at a time.  |
| Better Tackle  | 120   | You gain the following title: **Angler**: You have an edge on all Fishing project rolls.                                                        |
| Great Meal (1 serving) | 100  | A serving of this meal gives the eater 1 additional Recovery and 10 Temporary Stamina that lasts until their next respite. A creature can only benefit from 1 serving of this meal or another (like from the Learn a New Recipe project) at a time.  |
| Fishing Event  | 500   | You invoke a fishing event as if you got a breakthrough.                                                                                       |
| Legendary Fisher | 1,000 | You gain the following title: **Goldenrod**: While undertaking the Fishing project, you can ignore the results of one project roll.           |

#### FISHING EVENTS

1. While fishing, the hero reels in a talking fish. The fish informs the hero of any events that have occurred within 10 squares of the body of liquid they fished in within the last week, or one piece of Forbidden Knowledge (see Discover Lore).
2. While fishing, the hero reels in a note in a bottle. The note is written in Anjal and binds the reader into a deal with a powerful devil if read out loud, giving the devil ownership of the reader’s soul in exchange for rolling an additional 1d10 on all future fishing and project rolls.
3. While fishing, some passersby inform the hero of a rumor of a magic fishing rod that allows the fisher to double the length of the fish they reel in.
4. While fishing, the hero reels in an **angulotl daybringer**. They’re insulted by the hero catching them and threaten to summon heavy thunderstorms and drown the region in a flood. However, they can be negotiated with and might provide the hero with 1 serving of an amazing meal if they end things on good terms. A serving of this meal gives the eater 1 additional Recovery and 25 temporary Stamina that lasts until their next respite. A creature can only benefit from 1 serving of this meal or another (like from the Learn a New Recipe project) at a time.
5. While fishing, the hero reels in half of a mysterious ancient treasure of the Director’s choice. If the other half is found, the treasure magically melds together again.
6. While fishing, the hero has fond memories of their life up until now, energizing them. They have an edge on all Presence tests until the end of their next respite.
7. The hero manages to reach a new fishing milestone. They gain the following title: **Master of Reels**: When you deal damage to a creature or object that is 2 or more squares away from you that doesn’t force-move the creature, you can choose to pull the target a number of squares equal to your Agility, Reason, or Presence score (your choice).
8. It’s a relaxing, meditative exercise! While fishing, the hero has a breakthrough either on another project they’re working on, or they can give the breakthrough to another hero’s project.
9. While fishing, the hero is pulled by an ancient fish. The hero must succeed on a hard Might test in order to reel in a humongous fish worth 100 points, or fail and end the respite with 1 Recovery fewer than their maximum. On a success with complication result, the hero gets the fish and loses the Recovery.
10. While fishing, the hero catches their line on what appears to be an underwater cavern. Inside the cavern is a treasure of the Director’s choice being guarded by a revenant knight fulfilling their duty until their captain returns.

### SPEND TIME WITH LOVED ONES

**Item Prerequisites:** None  
**Project Source:** None  
**Project Roll Characteristic:** Presence  
**Project Goal:** 60  

You revitalize your spirit by spending time with people you love who you haven’t seen in a long while. You must be able to communicate with them in order to undertake this project and make project rolls for it. When you complete this project, your Stamina maximum increases by 10 until the end of your next respite. You can’t start another Spend Time with Loved Ones project for 1 month.

#### SPEND TIME WITH LOVED ONES EVENTS PROMPTS

| d10 | Prompt                                                                                                                                                             |
|-----|--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| 1   | Before the roll, the hero is presented with an heirloom, artifact, or family secret that aids another project they’ve undertaken or wanted to undertake. They can immediately make a project roll for that project as well as for this one.  |
| 2   | Before the roll, the hero’s family embraces their loved one’s companions as their own. Additional party members can contribute their project rolls to this project without using a respite activity. When this project is completed, the entire party gains the benefit of completion.  |
| 3   | Before the roll, the hero’s enemies have tracked them to their home. They immediately launch an attack, hoping to catch the hero off guard.                                                             |
| 4   | After the roll, the hero learns that a distant friend or family member has joined the cause of their enemies. Their loved ones plead with the hero to bring this person back home safely.              |
| 5   | After the roll, a loved one gives the hero a rare consumable to aid in their travels.                                                                                                                  |
| 6   | After the roll, the family shares that they have been subjected to a curse. The only way to lift it is by returning a family heirloom to its original place of origin.                                  |
| 7   | Before the roll, the hero meets an old family friend who is a more experienced adventurer. They offer to mentor the hero in exchange for a treasure or favor. If the hero accepts, they also complete a Learn from Master project when this project is complete.  |
| 8   | Before the roll, the surrounding community is not as happy to see the hero as their loved ones. By returning home, the hero put those they care about in danger, either with the authorities or an opposing power in the region. In order to complete with the project, they need to earn the trust of those they once called enemies.  |
| 9   | After the roll, the hero learns that family time is not always as rejuvenating as it seems. Completing the project requires an additional 20 project points, thanks to difficult relatives.            |
| 10  | Before the roll, the hero’s loved ones ask if the hero would like to cook together. If they accept, the hero can apply the results of this roll to a Learn a New Recipe project goal as well as this project. If the hero is not currently undergoing a Learn a New Recipe project, they begin one now and their family provides the prerequisite materials and source.  |

# TREASURES

Grab your magic sword, psionic shield, and Catapult Dust and let’s ride to adventure! You saved the world. You deserve a little treasure that can help you do it even more efficiently next time.  

Treasures are supernatural items that heroes find on their adventures and craft to help them with their heroics. You might claim a magic whip from a bandit captain or seize a cult leader’s psionic necklace.  

Treasures come in all shapes and sizes. There are four types you can find:

- **Consumables** are the most numerous treasures. These include potions, dusts, and other items that are consumed by you when you activate them. Most can only be used once!  
- **Trinkets** are treasures with supernatural properties that never fade. These typically don’t include armor, implements, and weapons. Magic bags, boots, cloaks, gloves, jewelry, and other oddities.  
- **Leveled items** are items that become even more powerful in the hands of a higher-level creature. They connect with their user, building a bond that fuels the item’s supernatural power. Armor, implements, and weapons are the most common type of leveled items.  
- **Artifacts** are treasures of legendary power that can change or shape an entire adventure or campaign. Each of these game-breaking items is unique, coveted, and well-guarded.

### FOUND, EARNED, OR CRAFTED

The rules of the game account for worlds where the average person, even the average noble, doesn’t really have regular access to treasures. There might be an apothecary in a Capital, but they’re selling herbal remedies, not supernatural potions. In Vasloria, a town blacksmith isn’t selling magic maces and the tailor doesn’t make psionic capes. There aren’t enough treasures readily available for a good trade economy. There is word of some mysterious clubs where heroes and treasure-seekers can come and swap items, but those can be difficult to find since these markets worry constantly about thieves.

Most treasures are found as part of their adventures. Many people have a dastardly scheme within their brain, but it’s only once they have the will and power to enact that vision that they become a villain—and acquiring treasures of great power is often part of that plan. The heroes who vanquish those evil-doers often get to claim that treasure for themselves. Others might find some very generous and well-stocked individuals, like monarchs and powerful mages, giving treasures as thanks for heroic deeds.

Heroes can also craft their own treasures, forging the tools they need to get the job done. Items that can be crafted have their item prerequisites and project source, roll characteristic, and goal listed. See Downtime Projects for more information about crafting.

### WEARING TREASURES

Many treasures, such as cloaks, jewelry, hats, and armor, can be worn. Unless the Director deems otherwise, these items supernaturally resize themselves to fit the creature using them.

Wearable treasures have keywords that indicate which part of the body they are meant to be adorned with. You can wear any number of treasures on a body keyword as long as the Director deems it reasonable. For example, a Director might be fine with a four-armed time raider wearing two pairs of bracers, but might decide that the same hero can’t benefit from wearing five magic cloaks at once. If the Director decides you’re wearing too many treasures of the same body keyword, then none of those treasures function.

Though body keywords are meant to help indicate where a treasure is meant to be worn, these treasures can still function if worn on other parts of the body. For example, a hero without ears or who just wants to have a different look might wear an earring as a piercing anywhere else on their body.

If a wearable treasure comes in a set, such as a pair of bracers, boots, or earrings, all items in the set must be worn to gain the benefits.

### TREASURES AND KITS

In order to gain the benefits of a weapon or armor treasure, the treasure must have keywords that are included in the equipment of your kit. For instance, a hero using the Warrior Priest kit can benefit from wearing a heavy armor treasure and wielding light weapon treasures, since those are part of their kit, but they gain no benefit from using treasures that are light armor, medium armor, shields, or any weapon other than a light weapon.

If your hero doesn’t use a kit, they can’t get any benefits from using armor or weapon treasures, unless they have a feature that says otherwise, such as the conduit’s Prayer of Soldier’s Skill.

## CONSUMABLES

Consumables are treasures that can be used a limited number of times before they expire, losing whatever makes them supernatural. You can drink a potion once, and when you do so, that’s it. It’s consumed. Other consumables might have a specific number of charges that can be spent. Once those charges are all gone, the treasure is useless.

Consumables are divided by echelon to make life easy for the Director handing them out. As a guideline, a hero should be able to find consumables or the materials required to craft consumables of their echelon and lower. Heroes who are 5th level should be able to find consumables of 1st and 2nd echelon. In some cases, the Director may decide to award consumables of an echelon higher than the heroes’, but such a choice means giving the heroes more power than the encounter-building guidelines in the Monsters book accounts for.

You can carry any number of consumables at a time.

### 1ST ECHELON CONSUMABLES

This section presents 1st echelon consumables in alphabetical order.

#### BLACK ASH DART

A diamond-shaped dart holds a shimmering black vial at its core.

- **Keywords:** Magic
- **Item Prerequisites:** Three vials of black ash from the College of Black Ash
- **Project Source:** Texts or lore in Szetch
- **Project Roll Characteristic:** Agility or Intuition
- **Project Goal:** 45 (yields 1d3 darts, or 3 darts if crafted by a shadow)

**Effect:** As a maneuver, you can make a ranged free strike using a black ash dart. The attack deals an extra 1 damage and adds the following effects to the tier results of the power roll:
  - 11 or lower: You can teleport the target up to 2 squares.
  - 12–16: You can teleport the target up to 4 squares.
  - 17+: You can teleport the target up to 6 squares.

#### BLOOD ESSENCE VIAL

A brittle glass tube with a ruby attached by a hinge as its topper.

- **Keywords:** Psionic, Potion
- **Item Prerequisites:** A ruby purloined from a vampire
- **Project Source:** Text or lore in Proto-Chtoll
- **Project Characteristic:** Agility or Reason
- **Project Goal:** 45

**Effect:** After you damage an adjacent creature with blood, you can capture the target’s life essence in this vial (no action required). Record the damage you dealt. As a maneuver, you drink the contents of the vial to regain Stamina equal to half the amount of damage dealt. Alternatively, spend 1 Heroic Resource to regain Stamina equal to the full amount of damage dealt. Once you drink from the vial, it crumbles to dust.

#### CATAPULT DUST

A small leather pouch is filled with this fine blue powder.

- **Keywords:** Magic
- **Item Prerequisites:** An ounce of witherite crystal
- **Project Source:** Texts or lore in Caelian
- **Project Roll Characteristic:** Reason or Intuition
- **Project Goal:** 45

**Effect:** Catapult Dust was developed as a cost-effective magical siege weapon. As an action, you pour the dust out in an adjacent, unoccupied space to fill an area as large as a 2-cube. At the start of your next turn, the ground or floor at the bottom of the area erupts violently upwards and in a direction of your choice. This launches any unattached objects in the area or creatures who have entered the area in an arc that is 6 + 1d6 squares long and 3 + 1d6 squares high.

#### GIANT’S-BLOOD FLAME

A small pot is filled with a viscous, ochre oil that smells of sulfur and burnt hair.

- **Keywords:** Magic, Oil
- **Item Prerequisites:** One vial of fire giant blood
- **Project Source:** Texts or lore in Caelian
- **Project Roll Characteristic:** Reason or Intuition
- **Project Goal:** 45

**Effect:** As a maneuver, you can coat a weapon in this oil and ignite it. The weapon burns persistently and without harming itself until it is extinguished as a maneuver. Whenever you use a weapon that is ignited this way with a damage-dealing weapon ability, you deal (SURGE) fire damage. Alternatively, you can use a maneuver to throw the pot up to 5 squares, coating 1 square and any creatures or objects in that square with a sticky, flammable oil. If the oil takes any fire damage, it burns persistently and deals 5 fire damage at the end of each of your turns to anything it has coated. A creature covered in the oil or who can reach it can use an action to extinguish the flames and end the effect.

#### GROWTH POTION

This thick, green liquid tastes of licorice and potatoes.

- **Keywords:** Magic, Potion
- **Item Prerequisites:** Five ounces of seagrass
- **Project Source:** Texts or lore in Caelian
- **Project Roll Characteristic:** Reason or Intuition
- **Project Goal:** 45

**Effect:** As a maneuver, you can drink this potion or pour it over an object of size 2 or smaller, causing the target’s size to increase by 1. If you are the target, your current Stamina and Stability are doubled, you gain an edge on Might tests, and your weapon attacks gain (SURGE). You shrink back to your original size after 3 rounds, halving your current Stamina and Stability, and losing the potion’s other benefits. Objects maintain their new size permanently.

#### HEALING POTION

Thick and red, this liquid tastes of sour beer.

- **Keywords:** Magic, Potion
- **Item Prerequisites:** One ounce of costmary leaves
- **Project Source:** Texts or lore in Caelian
- **Project Roll Characteristic:** Reason or Intuition
- **Project Goal:** 45

**Effect:** When you drink this potion as a maneuver, you regain Stamina equal to your recovery value without spending a Recovery.

#### IMP’S TONGUE

The tongue of an imp has been dried and preserved. Yuck.

- **Keywords:** Magic
- **Item Prerequisites:** One imp’s tongue
- **Project Source:** Texts or lore in Caelian
- **Project Roll Characteristic:** Reason or Intuition
- **Project Goal:** 45

**Effect:** As a maneuver, you can place the imp’s tongue on your own tongue, causing it to reconstitute and attach itself to your tongue. While attached, the Imp’s Tongue allows you to speak any language and understand any language spoken to you. This benefit ends after 1 hour when the tongue is absorbed into your body.

#### LACHOMP TOOTH

A thumb-sized serrated tooth seems to scratch your flesh in some way whenever it is handled.

- **Keywords:** Psionic
- **Item Prerequisites:** A leftover carcass of a lachomp meal
- **Project Source:** Texts or lore in Caelian
- **Project Roll Characteristic:** Reason or Intuition
- **Project Goal:** 45 (yields 1d3 teeth)

**Effect:** As a maneuver, you attach a lachomp tooth to a weapon, allowing that weapon to supernaturally flicker in and out of reality. Your next attack using this weapon can tear through multiple targets in a line (for an attack at range) or surrounding you (for an attack within reach). The attack also adds the following effects to the tier results of the power roll:
  - 11 or lower: You can affect one additional target with this attack.
  - 12–16: You can affect up to three additional targets with this attack.
  - 17+: You can affect up to seven additional targets with this attack.

#### MIRROR TOKEN

A gold-rimmed, mirror-faced coin trembles in the hand as if it were repelled by your touch.

- **Keywords:** Psionic
- **Item Prerequisites:** Three sheets of glass, sunbaked gold dust
- **Project Source:** Texts or lore in Variac
- **Project Roll Characteristic:** Reason or Intuition
- **Project Goal:** 45

**Effect:** While the Mirror Token is on your person and you are targeted by a ranged attack, you can use a triggered action to crush the token and ignore the attack. Half the damage you would have taken and any effects of the attack are suffered by the attacker.

#### POCKET HOMUNCULUS

A densely interlocking sphere of mechanics and illusory elements designed to create a perfect replica of its user.

- **Keywords:** Psionic
- **Item Prerequisites:** A strip of starmetal coated in your blood
- **Project Source:** Texts or lore in Zaliac
- **Project Characteristic:** Reason
- **Project Goal:** 45

**Effect:** When activated, this item erupts in a bright flash, allowing you to shift 1 square without your enemies noticing your movement and your homunculus twin appears in an adjacent space. The homunculus is a creature with 15 Stamina, 0 in all characteristics, speed and stability equal to yours. They can’t use any abilities. They look indistinguishable from you, mimicking all your movements and speech. When you move, the homunculus moves with you, matching your pace. The homunculus crumbles to dust after 1 hour or when their Stamina is reduced to 0.
  - You can use a maneuver to issue a telepathic command to your homunculus while they are within your line of effect. The homunculus performs the action to the best of their ability.

#### PORTABLE CLOUD

This thin glass sphere holds a tiny roiling cloud.

- **Keywords:** Magic
- **Item Prerequisites:** Ten ounces of rainwater from a sacred fey grove, plus optional prerequisites (see below)
- **Project Source:** Texts or lore in Caelian
- **Project Roll Characteristic:** Reason or Intuition
- **Project Goal:** 30 or 45 (see below)

**Effect:** As a maneuver, you can throw this delicate glass sphere up to 5 squares, breaking it and creating a 4-cube of fog. The fog dissipates after 10 minutes or if a strong gust of wind created by a storm or magic passes through the area.
  - **Noxious Cloud:** Filled with a green or putrid yellow haze, this sphere spreads a choking, foul-smelling mist when broken. Each creature who enters the cloud for the first time in a round or starts their turn there takes 5 poison damage. Additionally, creatures are weakened while in the fog. 
    - **Additional Item Prerequisites:** One ounce of undead flesh.
  - **Thunderhead Cloud:** Small lightning bolts arc around the black cloud in this sphere, which creates a 3-cube of cloud and lightning when broken. Each creature who enters the cloud for the first time in a round or starts their turn there takes 5 lightning damage. Additionally, creatures are slowed while in the cloud. 
    - **Additional Item Prerequisites:** A spool of copper wire.

#### PROFESSOR VERITASMO’S QUAFF ‘N HUFF SNUFF

A tiny compact of colorless powder with only the slightest astringent taste and smell—shockingly, this seemingly spurious item actually works.

- **Keywords:** Psionic, Potion
- **Item Prerequisites:** The roots of a just-budded nightshade
- **Project Source:** Text or lore in Caelian
- **Project Roll Characteristic:** Reason
- **Project Goal:** 45

**Effect:** As a maneuver, you can blow a dose of this powder at an adjacent, grabbed, restrained, or unconscious creature or sprinkle it onto food or drink. If a creature inhales or consumes a full dose of the powder, they must only speak true statements for the next hour. Additionally, creatures have an edge on Presence and Intuition tests to convince the target to speak or read their emotions. This rises to a double edge if the target doesn’t realize they’ve been dosed.

#### SNAPDRAGON

This delicate orange blossom has a sickly-sweet smell.

- **Keywords:** Magic
- **Item Prerequisites:** Fifty snapdragon seeds
- **Project Source:** Text or lore in Yllyric
- **Project Roll Characteristic:** Reason or Intuition
- **Project Goal:** 45 (yields 1d6 + 1 snapdragons)

**Effect:** As a maneuver, you sniff a magical snapdragon blossom, causing it to wither and making your movements more forceful and explosive. The next damage-dealing ability you use deals (SURGE), and adds 2 squares to the distance of any forced movement the ability imposes. If the ability does not impose forced movement, you can push each creature targeted by the ability up to 2 squares.

## TRINKETS

Trinkets are treasures that can be used at will without a reduction in their potency. They generally provide a small benefit, such as allowing you to see farther or become a bit better at picking locks.

Like consumables, treasures are divided into echelons. You can carry any number of trinkets.

### 1ST ECHELON TRINKETS

This section presents the 1st echelon trinkets in alphabetical order.

#### COLOR CLOAK (BLUE)

This silky-blue hooded cloak is emblazoned with a golden Anjal sigil meaning “ice.”

- **Keywords:** Magic, Neck
- **Item Prerequisites:** A pint of blue ichor, soul chalk
- **Project Source:** Licensing agreements in Anjal
- **Project Roll Characteristic:** Reason or Intuition
- **Project Goal:** 150

**Effect:** While worn, a blue cloak grants you cold immunity equal to your level. Additionally, when you are targeted by any effect that deals cold damage, you can use a triggered action to shift a number of squares equal to your level. If you do so, the cold immunity granted by the cloak becomes cold weakness with the same value until the end of the next round. You can’t use this triggered action again until this weakness ends.

#### COLOR CLOAK (RED)

This woolen red hooded cloak is emblazoned with a golden Anjal sigil meaning “fire.”

- **Keywords:** Magic, Neck
- **Item Prerequisites:** A pint of red ichor, soul chalk
- **Project Source:** Licensing agreements in Anjal
- **Project Roll Characteristic:** Reason or Intuition
- **Project Goal:** 150

**Effect:** While worn, a red cloak grants you fire immunity equal to your level. Additionally, when you are targeted by any effect that deals fire damage, you can use a triggered action to reduce the damage to 0. If you do so, the fire immunity granted by this cloak becomes fire weakness with the same value until the end of the next round. You can’t use this triggered action again until this weakness ends.

#### COLOR CLOAK (YELLOW)

This rubbery yellow hooded cloak is emblazoned with a golden Anjal sigil meaning “lightning.”

- **Keywords:** Magic, Neck
- **Item Prerequisites:** A pint of yellow ichor, soul chalk
- **Project Source:** Licensing agreements in Anjal
- **Project Roll Characteristic:** Reason or Intuition
- **Project Goal:** 150

**Effect:** While worn, a yellow cloak grants you lightning immunity equal to your level. Additionally, when you are targeted by any effect that deals lightning damage, you can use a triggered action to cause the next damage-dealing ability you use to deal extra lightning damage equal to your level. Once you deal this extra damage, your lightning immunity becomes lightning weakness with the same value until the end of the next round. You can’t use this triggered action again until this weakness ends.

#### DEADWEIGHT

Though this humanoid femur is coated in lead, it feels impossibly heavy for its size.

- **Keywords:** Magic
- **Prerequisites:** One humanoid femur, one bar of lead laced with starmetal
- **Project Source:** Texts or lore in Caelian
- **Project Roll Characteristic:** Reason or Intuition
- **Project Goal:** 150

**Effect:** While holding the Deadweight, you fall twice as fast, taking an extra 1 damage for each square you fall. However, while falling in this way, you can use any melee ability normally used as an action (no action required). Whether you use the ability while falling or when you hit the ground, it deals an extra 2 damage for each square you fall before using it.

#### DISPLACING REPLACEMENT BRACER

A wooden bangle etched with an ambigram sigil of the Zaliac word for “transfer.”

- **Keywords:** Arms, Psionic
- **Item Prerequisites:** Petrified wood from a tree that has not been observed since falling
- **Project Source:** Texts or lore in Zaliac
- **Project Roll Characteristic:** Reason
- **Project Goal:** 150

**Effect:** As a maneuver, you can transfer an object of size 1S or 1T held aloft in one hand with another object of the same size that is within 10 squares of you. The objects change locations instantaneously and without creating auditory or visual disturbances. If another creature is wearing or holding the object you transfer to your hand, they notice the transfer if their Intuition score is 3 or higher.

#### DIVINE VINE

A coil of emerald-green vines is topped with the jaws of an enormous Venus flytrap.

- **Keywords:** Magic
- **Item Prerequisites:** Three withered mundane vines, a tree’s blessing
- **Project Source:** Songs in Yllyric
- **Project Roll Characteristic:** Reason or Presence
- **Project Goal:** 100

**Effect:** As a maneuver, you call upon the Divine Vine in Yllyric, causing it to extend up to 5 squares from you and attach its jaws to a creature or object, allowing you to use the Grab maneuver at a distance. If the target is grabbed, you can choose to keep the divine vine extended, pull the target adjacent to you, or pull yourself adjacent to the target. The divine vine stays attached to the target until the vine is attacked, the target escapes your grab, or you call upon the vine to release the target (no action required).

#### FLAMESHADE GLOVES

A set of finely stitched gloves that make the wearer’s hands appear to flicker in and out of reality.

- **Keywords:** Hands, Psionic
- **Item Prerequisites:** A humanoid’s shadow disconnected from its humanoid
- **Project Source:** Texts or lore in Khelt
- **Project Roll Characteristic:** Reason
- **Project Goal:** 150

**Effect:** When wearing these gloves, use your movement to place one hand upon a mundane object. If the object is 1 square thick or thinner and has open space on the side, you pull your entire body through as though it were not there. If the object is mundane but too thick or has no open space on the other side, your hands get stuck inside the object. You can remove them by succeeding on a hard Might test made as an action.

#### GECKO GLOVES

These scaled gloves have palms and fingers covered in near-invisible sticky hairs.

- **Keywords:** Hands, Magic
- **Item Prerequisites:** Ten gecko tails
- **Project Source:** Texts or lore in Caelian
- **Project Roll Characteristic:** Reason or Intuition
- **Project Goal:** 100

**Effect:** While you wear these gloves, your grip becomes all but impossible to break. You can’t be disarmed, you can’t lose your grip while climbing, and creatures grabbed by you take a bane on the resistance roll for the Escape Grab maneuver.

#### GYROTOQUE

A tight cap topped with a freely-spinning bauble.

- **Keywords:** Head, Psionic
- **Item Prerequisites:** A lodestone that has been struck by lightning
- **Project Source:** Texts or lore in Zaliac
- **Project Roll Characteristic:** Reason
- **Project Goal:** 150

**Effect:** When the bauble atop this cap is spun (no action required), the cap gains a momentum score equal to the number of squares you moved this turn. The score drops to 0 at the end of your next turn or the next time you spin the bauble to gain a momentum score. As a move action, you can spin the bauble in the opposite direction to instantly infuse yourself with the cap’s momentum. The next time you force move a creature before the end of your turn, the forced movement is increased by an amount equal to the cap’s momentum score. The stored momentum then disappears from the cap.

#### HELLCHARGER HELM

A steel helm set with two curved ebony horns, with a crackling plume of fire floating between them.

- **Keywords:** Head, Magic
- **Item Prerequisites:** One broken contract, one ingot of steel
- **Project Source:** Texts or lore in Anjal and Caelian
- **Project Roll Characteristic:** Might or Reason
- **Project Goal:** 150

**Effect:** Whenever you take the Charge action while wearing this helmet, your speed is increased by 5 until the end of your current turn. After charging, you can use the Knockback maneuver as a free maneuver, regardless of the target creature’s size.

#### MASK OF THE MANY

A plain white mask lined with soft black velvet—which smells faintly of blood.

- **Keywords:** Head, Magic
- **Item Prerequisites:** One used death shroud
- **Project Source:** Texts or lore in Caelian
- **Project Roll Characteristic:** Reason or Intuition
- **Project Goal:** 150

**Effect:** When you wear this mask, you can use a maneuver to transform into any humanoid of equivalent size that you have previously seen. The humanoid’s appearance must reflect the last time you saw them, including whatever they were wearing. Your clothing and gear are transformed into the figure’s clothing and gear, absorbed into your body, or retain their original form, as you determine. If the figure possessed any treasures when you last saw them, they are duplicated as mundane copies while you are transformed.

#### QUANTUM SATCHEL

A woven metal drawstring seals this plain-looking leather bag, which is affixed with an opal broach.

- **Keywords:** Magic
- **Item Prerequisites:** One uncut opal
- **Project Source:** Texts or lore in Caelian
- **Project Roll Characteristic:** Reason or Intuition
- **Project Goal:** 150

**Effect:** When the broach is removed from this bag and placed in a container or room, it magically entangles that location to the bag. Any item that can be placed in the Quantum Satchel appears near to the broach and can be recovered by reaching inside while picturing the desired object. The capacity of the satchel is dictated by the size of the container or room where the entangled broach is. If an item is removed from the container or room containing the broach, it can’t be retrieved via the satchel.

#### UNBINDER BOOTS

A pair of ornately embroidered leather boots covered in images of broken chains.

- **Keywords:** Feet, Magic
- **Item Prerequisites:** One battered gold chain of at least fifty links
- **Project Source:** Texts or lore in Caelian
- **Project Roll Characteristic:** Reason or Intuition
- **Project Goal:** 150

**Effect:** These boots can temporarily unbind themselves from the chains of the earth, letting you move vertically 3 squares whenever you move forward. If this vertical movement doesn’t leave you in a position to grab onto something, or if you don’t have some ability to stay airborne, you fall.

## LEVELED TREASURES

Like trinkets, leveled treasures can be used at will without a reduction in potency. However, leveled treasures tap into your will in a way that trinkets don’t, becoming more powerful and increasing their capabilities as you level up.

### LEVELED BENEFITS

Each leveled treasure has benefits that you gain at 1st, 5th, and 9th levels. You can’t use a treasure’s benefit until you achieve the appropriate benefits level. Leveled benefits are cumulative.

### CARRY THREE SAFELY

Your connection with leveled treasures doesn’t just make them useful; it also makes them dangerous. Each leveled item is a quasi-sentient, purpose-driven entity. Magic swords wish to be used in combat. Psionic crowns yearn to defy physics and bend reality. As such, a creature can safely carry a maximum of three leveled treasures at a time. If you carry more leveled treasures, those items become jealous of one another and fight for your attention, attempting to subconsciously influence you into using them—and leaving your other items behind.

It’s fine to own or possess more than three leveled treasures, as long as the extras are stored away or in the possession of other creatures. But if you carry more than three leveled treasures, you must make a Presence test during each respite:

- **11 or lower:** One of your leveled treasures (chosen by the Director) grabs hold of your psyche. It forces you to sleepwalk or otherwise enter an active fugue state and discard the rest of your leveled treasures someplace that you can’t remember. If you want those items back, you’d better get looking before someone else finds them.
- **12–16:** Your items work together to prevent you from moving until you pick three items and leave the rest behind.
- **17+:** Nothing happens.

### LEVELED ARMOR TREASURES

This section presents leveled armor in alphabetical order.

#### ADAPTIVE SECOND SKIN OF TOXINS

A tight-fitting suit of tough flesh that latches painlessly onto the wearer with thousands of tiny barbs.

- **Keywords:** Light Armor, Magic
- **Item Prerequisites:** 5 rabid honey badger pelts, the quills of a hedgehog
- **Project Source:** Scrolls in Yllyric
- **Project Roll Characteristic:** Agility or Intuition
- **Project Goal:** 450
- **1st Level:** You gain a +6 bonus to Stamina while you wear this armor, and you gain immunity to acid and poison damage equal to your highest characteristic score.
- **5th Level:** You gain a +12 bonus to Stamina while you wear this armor. When an adjacent creature deals damage to you, they take (SURGE) magic damage that is acid or poison damage (your choice).
- **9th Level:** You gain a +21 bonus to Stamina while you wear this armor. The damage adjacent creatures who deal damage to you takes rises to (SURGE)(SURGE). As a maneuver, you can transmute a 2-cube area of liquid or gas within 1 square of you into liquid acid or poison gas until the start of your next turn. A creature who enters or starts their turn in the square takes (SURGE) magic damage that is acid or poison, based on the conversion you made.

#### CHAIN OF THE SEA AND SKY

This set of heavy chainmail is created to allow free movement in extreme environments without sacrificing protection.

- **Keywords:** Heavy Armor, Magic
- **Item Prerequisites:** A set of wings from a flying carp, a set of chainmail rusted by seawater
- **Project Source:** Texts or lore in Zaliac
- **Project Roll Characteristic:** Might, Reason, or Intuition
- **Project Goal:** 450
- **1st Level:** While you wear this armor, you gain a +6 Stamina bonus, and your movement gains the Swim keyword.

and you can breathe underwater for up to 1 hour. Returning to the surface to breathe air again for any length of time resets the armor’s water-breathing benefit.

- **5th Level:** The armor’s Stamina bonus increases to +12, and you have cold immunity 5. Additionally, whenever you fall, you can extend your arms (no action required) to unfurl a thick membrane between your arms and your body, slowing your fall and allowing you to glide. While gliding in this way, you move downward at a speed of 1 square per round, and you can glide up to 6 squares horizontally as a free maneuver once during your turn.
- **9th Level:** The armor’s Stamina bonus increases to +21, and you have cold immunity 10. Additionally, whenever your feet are not touching a solid surface (including floating in water or being in midair), you gain a boon on attacks, and any attack that targets you takes a bane.

#### GRAND SCARAB

The bluish-purple carapace and wings of a gigantic scarab beetle have been formed into an ornate breastplate.

- **Keywords:** Medium Armor, Magic
- **Item Prerequisites:** A giant scarab carapace
- **Project Source:** Texts or lore in Phaedran
- **Project Roll Characteristic:** Might, Reason, or Intuition
- **Project Goal:** 450
- **1st Level:** While you wear this armor, you gain a +6 Stamina bonus, and your movement gains the Fly keyword. If you don’t end your turn on a solid surface, you fall.
- **5th Level:** The armor’s Stamina bonus increases to +12, and you no longer need to end your turn on a solid surface to avoid falling.
- **9th Level:** The armor’s Stamina bonus increases to +21. Additionally, if you fly any distance before making an attack, that attack gains an edge.

#### KING’S ROAR

A sunmetal kite shield bears the face of a lion on its front, with the lion’s mouth opening wider over the course of a battle.

- **Keywords:** Magic, Shield
- **Item Prerequisites:** A ballad of the wielder’s heroism, two ingots of sunmetal
- **Project Source:** Songs in Old Sun Elf
- **Project Roll Characteristic:** Reason, Intuition, or Presence
- **Project Goal:** 450
- **1st Level:** While you wield or carry this shield, you gain a +2 Stamina bonus. Additionally, you can use a maneuver to make the shield’s lion face roar, choosing one creature or object within reach and pushing that target up to 3 squares.
- **5th Level:** The shield’s Stamina bonus increases to +5. Additionally, when you cause the shield to roar, you can target one creature or object within reach + 2 and push that target up to 4 squares.
- **9th Level:** While wielding the shield, you have damage immunity 5. Additionally, when you cause the shield to roar, you can target one creature or object within reach + 5, you can push that target up to 5 squares, and the target is slowed (EoT).

#### KURAN’ZOI PRISMSCALE

Each scale of this iridescent armor is a mote of crystallized time.

- **Keywords:** Medium Armor, Psionic
- **Item Prerequisites:** The eyes of a time raider who died valiantly in battle
- **Project Source:** Texts or lore in Voll
- **Project Roll Characteristic:** Intuition or Presence
- **Project Goal:** 450
- **1st Level:** You gain a +6 bonus to Stamina while you wear this armor. When a creature within 5 squares of you attacks you, you can use a triggered action to capture a moment of time in your armor, causing the attacking creature to immediately end their turn after the attack is resolved.
- **5th Level:** The armor’s bonus to Stamina increases to +12. When you capture a moment of time in your armor, the attacking creature also becomes slowed (EoT).
- **9th Level:** The armor’s bonus to Stamina increases to +21. When you capture a moment of time in your armor, you can immediately release it for a burst of speed. If you do, you become dazed (save ends) and can take an extra turn immediately after the triggering creature.

#### PAPER TRAPPINGS

This delicate robe is made from thousands of pages torn from books, intricately folded together without a single thread to bind them.

- **Keywords:** Light Armor, Magic
- **Item Prerequisites:** Ten pages from a hundred different books
- **Project Source:** Texts or lore in Anjal
- **Project Roll Characteristic:** Might, Reason, or Intuition
- **Project Goal:** 450
- **1st Level:** While you wear this armor, you gain a +6 Stamina bonus. Additionally, as an action, you can fold in on yourself until you and your gear are paper-thin. This effect lasts for 1 minute, letting you easily slip through any opening that is at least 1 inch wide. When you return to your three-dimensional form, you are dazed for 1 minute. If you return to your true form while in a space that is too small for you, you are violently expelled into the nearest open space of your choice and take 3d6 damage.
- **5th Level:** The armor’s Stamina bonus increases to +12. While you are paper-thin, you can use a maneuver to wrap yourself around an adjacent target who is the same size or smaller than you, automatically making them grabbed. Additionally, when you return to your true form, you are dazed only until the end of your next turn.
- **9th Level:** The armor’s Stamina bonus increases to +21. While you have a target grabbed when you are paper-thin, you can use a maneuver to constrict the target, dealing 10 damage to them. A creature damaged this way takes a bane when using the Escape Grab maneuver against you and when making an attack against you. Additionally, you are no longer dazed when you return to your true form.

#### SHROUDED MEMORY

A midnight leather coat embossed with fractal patterns that seem different each time you look at it.

- **Keywords:** Light Armor, Psionic
- **Item Prerequisites:** The will of a deceased person with no heirs
- **Project Source:** Texts or lore in Khelt
- **Project Roll Characteristic:** Agility or Presence
- **Project Goal:** 450
- **1st Level:** You gain a +6 bonus to Stamina while you wear this armor. Creatures that lose sight of you forget your face. You have an edge on tests made to lie about or conceal your identity.
- **5th Level:** The armor’s bonus to Stamina increases to +12. When you take damage, you can use a triggered action to teleport up to 5 squares. If you do, you create an illusion of you dying in your previous space, which fades at the end of the next turn.
- **9th Level:** The armor’s bonus to Stamina increases to +21. When you use the Shrouded Memory’s triggered action to teleport, you teleport a number of squares equal to the damage taken, and you become invisible to the creature who damaged you until the end of your next turn.

#### SPINY TURTLE

This heavy mechanized plate armor of gnomish make is designed to create its own cover on the battlefield.

- **Keywords:** Heavy Armor, Magic
- **Item Prerequisites:** Ten steel gears
- **Project Source:** Texts or lore in Variac
- **Project Roll Characteristic:** Might, Reason, or Intuition
- **Project Goal:** 450
- **1st Level:** While you wear this armor, you gain a +6 Stamina bonus. Additionally, as an action, you can expand the armor on your back to create a 4-wall of metal behind you. The wall is an object that retracts if you move, or if it takes 15 damage. It then requires an action to recalibrate before it can be deployed again.
- **5th Level:** The armor’s Stamina bonus increases to +12. Additionally, the amount of damage the wall can take before retracting increases to 25. While the wall is expanded, spikes extrude from it, and any creature who attacks the wall while adjacent to it takes (SURGE) damage.
- **9th Level:** The armor’s Stamina bonus increases to +21. Additionally, spikes cover the armor, and any creature who attacks you while adjacent to you takes (SURGE) damage.

#### STAR-HUNTER

A shimmering suit of crystalline armor, coveted by elite warriors of the space lanes.

- **Keywords:** Heavy Armor, Psionic
- **Item Prerequisites:** Fifty pounds of astral ice, one pint of supercooled mercury
- **Project Source:** Texts or lore in Voll
- **Project Roll Characteristic:** Might, Reason, or Intuition
- **Project Goal:** 450
- **1st Level:** Abilities with the Magic keyword have an edge when targeting you. You gain a +7 bonus to Stamina while you wear this armor, and you instinctively know the location of concealed creatures within 2 squares of you. As a maneuver, you can turn invisible. Your invisibility ends if you take damage, make an attack, or at the end of your next turn.
- **5th Level:** The armor’s bonus to Stamina increases to +14, and you instinctively know the location of concealed creatures within 5 squares of you. Your invisibility no longer ends at the end of your next turn. Additionally, you gain psychic immunity 5.
- **9th Level:** The armor’s bonus to Stamina increases to +25, and you instinctively know the location of concealed creatures within 10 squares of you. Your invisibility no longer ends when you make an attack. Additionally, your psychic immunity increases to 10.

#### TELEKINETIC BULWARK

Those who strike against the bulwark are often locked into a duel to the death.

- **Keywords:** Psionic, Shield
- **Item Prerequisites:** Three ingots of steel and six crystals that resonate with psionic power
- **Project Sources:** Texts or lore in Variac
- **Project Roll Characteristic:** Might, Reason, or Intuition
- **Project Goal:** 450
- **1st Level:** You gain +2 Stamina. Once per turn as a free triggered action, you can use the Grab maneuver against an adjacent enemy who attacks. There is no limit to the number of enemies you can grab with this action.
- **5th Level:** You gain +5 Stamina. The shield’s free triggered action can now grab enemies that attack within 10 squares of you. Enemies grabbed by the bulwark suffer a bane when attempting to escape.
- **9th Level:** You gain (SHIELD). As a maneuver, you can make the shield pull in any number of targets it has grabbed up to 5 squares.

### LEVELED IMPLEMENT TREASURES

This section presents leveled implements in alphabetical order. Implements are jewelry, orbs, staffs, tomes, wands, weapons, and other objects used by magic and psionic users to focus their power.

#### ABJURER’S BASTION

An ornate ring is set with a large diamond that swirls with blue light, and its inner surface is etched with protective runes.

- **Keywords:** Implement, Magic
- **Item Prerequisites:** A diamond ring
- **Project Source:** Texts or lore in Caelian
- **Project Roll Characteristic:** Might, Reason, or Intuition
- **Project Goal:** 450
- **1st Level:** While you wield this implement, your damage-dealing supernatural abilities gain a +1 damage bonus. Additionally, whenever you deal damage to a creature with a supernatural ability, you gain Temporary Stamina equal to your unmodified power roll.
- **5th Level:** The implement’s damage bonus increases to +2. Additionally, whenever you deal damage using a supernatural ability, you can use a maneuver to create an immobile field of protection that is a 1-cube around yourself or an ally within 5 squares of you. While in the field, you or the chosen ally has damage immunity 5. The field disappears at the start of your next turn.
- **9th Level:** The implement’s damage bonus increases to +3. Whenever you deal damage to a creature using a supernatural ability, you and each ally within 5 squares of you gain Temporary Stamina equal to your unmodified power roll. Additionally, the size of your field of protection increases to a 3-cube, and it can be placed anywhere within 10 squares of you. You and each ally in the field gain its benefits.

#### BRITTLEBREAKER

This crystal wand is so thin and brittle that it feels like even a slight squeeze will shatter it, yet it thrums with power.

- **Keywords:** Psionic, Wand
- **Item Prerequisites:** Three ounces of shattered quartz
- **Project Source:** Texts or lore in Caelian
- **Project Roll Characteristic:** Might, Reason, or Intuition
- **Project Goal:** 450
- **1st Level:** While you wield this implement, your damage-dealing supernatural abilities deal an extra 4 psychic damage. You have damage weakness 3, but you gain an edge on supernatural power rolls if you aren’t at full Stamina, or a double edge if you are winded.
- **5th Level:** The implement’s extra psychic damage increases to 6. Additionally, once per turn when you take more than 20 damage from a single source, the implement’s extra damage is doubled until the end of your turn.
- **9th Level:** The implement’s extra psychic damage increases to 8. Additionally, whenever you use a damage-dealing supernatural ability, you can take half as much damage as is dealt to the target to immediately use the same ability again. The damage you take can’t be reduced in any way. You can repeat this process until you become winded.

#### CHALDORB

A perfectly clear sphere is embossed with fine ivory and crystal that is frigid to the touch.

- **Keywords:** Implement, Magic
- **Item Prerequisites:** An ounce of primordial ice, an ounce of mammoth-ivory shards
- **Project Source:** Texts or lore in Zaliac
- **Project Roll Characteristic:** Might, Reason, or Intuition
- **Project Goal:** 450
- **1st Level:** While you wield this implement, your damage-dealing magic abilities gain a +2 damage bonus. If you make a magic attack, the attack must deal cold damage instead of its usual damage.
- **5th Level:** The implement’s damage bonus increases to +4. Whenever you use a magic ability, a whirlwind of sleet and ice whips around you, dealing (SURGE) magic cold damage to each enemy within 1 square of you.
- **9th Level:** The implement’s damage bonus increases to +6. Additionally, the whirlwind you create when you use a magic ability deals (SURGE)(SURGE) magic cold damage to each enemy within 2 squares of you, and creates a 2-aura around you that lasts until the start of your next turn. Each enemy who enters the aura for the first time in a round or starts their turn there takes (SURGE)(SURGE) magic cold damage.

#### ETHER-FUELED CENSOR

A bronze censor molded into the form of a ghostly figure.

- **Keywords:** Implement, Psionic
- **Item Prerequisites:** Incense distilled from the essence of ether
- **Project Source:** Texts or lore in Caelian
- **Project Roll Characteristic:** Intuition or Reason
- **Project Goal:** 450
- **1st Level:** While you wield this implement, your damage-dealing supernatural abilities gain a +1 damage bonus. A creature damaged by you becomes insubstantial to you until the end of their next turn, allowing you to pass through the creature freely. The creature cannot take opportunity attacks against you while insubstantial.
- **5th Level:** The implement’s damage bonus becomes +2. A creature insubstantial to you cannot affect you in any way until the end of their next turn.
- **9th Level:** The implement’s damage bonus becomes +3. Non-leader and non-solo creatures insubstantial to you are also insubstantial to your allies, who cannot be affected by the insubstantial creature.

#### FOESENSE LENSES

These glasses have pink-tinged glass lenses held in a silver frame.

- **Keywords:** Implement, Psionic
- **Item Prerequisites:** Two clear lenses carved from volcanic glass
- **Project Source:** Texts or lore in Caelian
- **Project Roll Characteristic:** Reason or Intuition
- **Project Goal:** 450
- **1st Level:** While you wield this implement, your damage-dealing supernatural abilities gain a +2 damage bonus. When you deal damage to a creature, you can use their senses, allowing you to use abilities and experience all they observe as if you were in their space, until the end of your next turn. You also benefit from your own senses at the same time.
- **5th Level:** The implement’s damage bonus becomes +4. After dealing damage with a supernatural ability, you can cause intense pain in one creature whose senses you are using. That creature takes a bane on any power rolls until the start of your next turn.
- **9th Level:** The implement’s damage bonus becomes +6. Any creature you have damaged with an attack using this implement in the last minute is dazed while you are using their senses.

#### GEOMETRIC MANIPULATOR

This tiny gold sphere is made up of intricately interlocking rings and plates.

- **Keywords:** Magic, Orb
- **Item Prerequisites:** Fourteen gold rings each two inches in diameter
- **Project Source:** Texts or lore in Zaliac
- **Project Roll Characteristic:** Might, Reason, or Intuition
- **Project Goal:** 450
- **1st Level:** While you wield this implement, your damage-dealing supernatural abilities gain a +2 damage bonus. Additionally, when using any supernatural ability that creates a cube or a burst, you can use a maneuver to rearrange the squares of the area into any shape you wish, provided there are no empty squares inside it.
- **5th Level:** The implement’s damage bonus increases to +4. Additionally, when using a supernatural ability that creates a cube or a burst, you can increase or decrease the size of the area by 1. If you decrease the size of the area, you gain an edge on the ability. If you increase the size, you take a bane on the ability.
- **9th Level:** The implement’s damage bonus increases to +6. Additionally, you can increase or decrease the size of your supernatural area abilities by 2, and rearranging the squares of a cube or burst ability requires no action.

#### WORDS BECOME WONDERS AT NEXT BREATH

An ornate high elf tome, this book seems to sigh each time it is opened.

- **Keywords:** Implement, Magic
- **Item Prerequisites:** Written permission from a high elf magistrate
- **Project Source:** Texts or lore in Hyrallic
- **Project Roll Characteristic:** Reason or Intuition
- **Project Goal:** 450
- **1st Level:** You can open or close the tome as a maneuver while saying its full name. While the tome is open, it floats in a space adjacent to you and flips to specific pages at your command. You gain an edge on Intuition tests to recall lore, and the distance of your ranged magical abilities increases by 3.
- **5th Level:** While the tome is open, the distance of your ranged magical abilities increases by 5. Additionally, when you or a creature within your line of effect uses a Magic ability, you can use a triggered action to add 3 to the power roll.
- **9th Level:** While the tome is open, you automatically obtain a tier 3 result on Intuition tests to recall lore, and the heroic resource cost of your abilities is halved.

### LEVELED WEAPON TREASURES

This section presents leveled weapons in alphabetical order.

#### AUTHORITY’S END

This twelve-foot chain is composed entirely of broken links.

- **Keywords:** Psionic, Whip
- **Item Prerequisites:** A lash used to punish a mutineer
- **Project Source:** Texts or lore in Khelt
- **Project Roll Characteristic:** Reason, Intuition, or Presence
- **Project Goal:** 450
- **1st Level:** You gain a +2 damage bonus to weapon abilities that use this whip. When you damage a creature with Authority’s End, you can immediately use a maneuver to end a condition or effect currently imposed by the target on you or another creature within 5 squares of you.
- **5th Level:** The whip’s damage bonus increases to +4. You and your allies within 2 squares of you have an edge on resistance rolls.
- **9th Level:** The whip’s damage bonus increases to +6. Additionally, you can now end a condition or effect when you damage a creature with this whip, without using a maneuver (though you can only end one condition or effect per instance of damage). In addition, Authority’s End refuses to vie for control of your psyche. It no longer counts against the limit of leveled treasures you can carry safely.

#### BLADE OF QUINTESSENCE

This crystal blade houses a stormy vortex of fire, ice, and lightning.

- **Keywords:** Magic, Medium Weapon
- **Item Prerequisites:** A ruby hardened in the fires of the City of Brass, a sapphire that has been struck by lightning
- **Project Source:** Texts or lore in Zaliac
- **Project Roll Characteristic:** Might, Reason, or Intuition
- **Project Goal:** 450
- **1st Level:** Any weapon ability that uses the Blade of Quintessence gains a +2 damage bonus, and you can change the ability’s damage type to cold, fire, lightning, or sonic.
- **5th Level:** The blade’s damage bonus increases to +4. Additionally, the sword can be used with ranged weapon abilities, and it returns to you when the ability is resolved. Ranged abilities used with the sword increase their distance by 3, and must deal cold, fire, lightning, or sonic damage (chosen when you make the attack).
- **9th Level:** The blade’s damage bonus increases to +6. Additionally, while you wield or carry the sword, you gain immunity 10 to cold, fire, lightning, and sonic damage.

#### BLADE OF THE LUXURIOUS FOP

Sporting an outrageously ornate hilt adorned with far too many jewels, this blade is also somehow perfectly balanced.

- **Keywords:** Magic, Light Weapon
- **Item Prerequisites:** A personal Blessing from the greatest duelist in the nation and six fake (but very shiny) gemstones
- **Project Source:** Texts or lore in Caelian
- **Project Roll Characteristic:** Agility, Reason, or Intuition
- **Project Goal:** 450
- **1st Level:** You gain a +2 bonus damage to weapon abilities that use the blade. When you deal damage with this weapon, you can immediately shift 1 square. Additionally, if an NPC has the Greed, Legacy, Power, or Revelry motivations, your presence during a negotiation with them increases their starting interest by 1.
- **5th Level:** The blade’s damage bonus increases to +4. When you make an opportunity attack against an enemy of your size or smaller, your fancy footwork causes them to trip and fall prone. Your Renown score increases by 1.
- **9th Level:** The blade’s damage bonus increases to +6. You have a double edge on any test you make with a skill you have from the interpersonal skill group.

#### DISPLACER

Warriors at the forefront of a battle use this crystal battleaxe to move psionically about the battlefield.

- **Keywords:** Medium Weapon, Psionic
- **Item Prerequisites:** An ancient bronze core covered in runes
- **Project Source:** Texts in Zaliac
- **Project Roll Characteristic:** Might or Intuition
- **Project Goal:** 450
- **1st Level:** You gain a +2 psychic damage bonus to abilities that use Displacer. When you deal damage to a creature, you can use your maneuver to trade places with the target, provided you can both fit into each other’s spaces.
- **5th Level:** Your psychic damage bonus increases to +4. When you deal damage to a creature, you can use your maneuver to trade places with the target or any creature within 4 squares of the target, provided you both fit into each other’s spaces.
- **9th Level:** Your psychic damage bonus increases to +6. When you deal damage to a creature, you can use your maneuver to trade places with the target or any creature within 8 squares of the target, provided you both fit into each other’s spaces. Additionally, you can choose to cause the creature you displaced to become weakened (EoT), or you can allow the creature you swapped places with to spend a Recovery.

#### EXECUTIONER’S BLADE

The blade hums louder as its quarry weakens.

- **Keywords:** Heavy Weapon, Psionic
- **Item Prerequisites:** Skull of a convicted criminal
- **Project Source:** Texts or lore in Caelian
- **Project Roll Characteristic:** Might, Reason, or Intuition
- **Project Goal:** 450
- **1st Level:** You gain a +1 bonus psychic damage to abilities that use the blade. This bonus is increased to +3 against winded targets. The first time you cause an enemy to become winded in an encounter, you gain 10 Temporary Stamina.
- **5th Level:** You gain a +2 bonus psychic damage to abilities that use the blade. This bonus is increased to +6 against winded targets. When you cause an enemy to become winded with an attack made with the blade, the attack gains (SURGE)(SURGE).
- **9th Level:** You gain a +3 bonus psychic damage to abilities that use the blade. This bonus is increased to +9 against winded targets. You gain an edge on attacks against winded targets made with the blade.

#### ICEMAKER MAUL

Whatever the head of this platinum hammer touches becomes encased in ice.

- **Keywords:** Heavy Weapon, Magic
- **Item Prerequisites:** Eight iron bars cooled in a glacier and the branch of an ancient evergreen
- **Project Source:** Texts in Zaliac
- **Project Roll Characteristic:** Might, Reason, or Intuition
- **Project Goal:** 450
- **1st Level:** You gain a +2 bonus cold damage to weapon abilities that use the maul. You can use your maneuver to create a 3-burst ice field. This area becomes difficult terrain for enemies and lasts until the end of the encounter or when you use this ability again.
- **5th Level:** The maul’s damage bonus is increased to +4 cold damage, and the ice field size is increased to 4 burst. When you make a weapon attack against an enemy in the ice field with the maul, you gain (SURGE) on the attack.
- **9th Level:** The maul’s damage bonus is increased to +6 cold damage, and the size of the ice field is increased to 5 burst. Any enemy in the ice field that is defeated by an attack from the maul can be shattered, dealing (SURGE)(SURGE)(SURGE) cold damage to any enemies within 3 of your target.

#### KNIFE OF NINE

This ivory dagger features nine faintly glowing indentations along the blade.

- **Keywords:** Light Weapon, Psionic
- **Item Prerequisites:** Eighteen daggers—nine taken from personal enemies and nine gifted by friends
- **Project Source:** Texts or lore in Variac
- **Project Roll Characteristic:** Reason or Intuition
- **Project Goal:** 450
- **1st Level:** Whenever you use this knife with a weapon ability, the ability deals an extra 3 psychic damage. This extra damage increases by 1 each time you attack the same target during the same encounter, to a maximum of 3.
- **5th Level:** Whenever you reduce a creature to 0 Stamina with the knife, one of its indentations glows brighter. When you use a signature ability using the knife, you can use a triggered action to expend any number of bright-glowing indentations, with the ability dealing extra psychic damage equal to the number of indentations. The expended indentations then return to a dim glow.
- **9th Level:** If you make a weapon attack against a target after dropping down on them from at least 2 squares’ height, the attack deals an extra (SURGE)(SURGE) psionic psychic damage. You can distribute all extra psychic damage dealt by the attack between the target and any enemies adjacent to them.

#### LANCE OF THE SUNDERED STAR

A needle-like lance of shimmering metal that induces a yearning for the skies.

- **Keywords:** Magic, Polearm
- **Item Prerequisites:** Night-blooming flower petals, a starmetal meteorite
- **Project Source:** Texts or lore in Hyrallic
- **Project Roll Characteristic:** Agility or Presence
- **Project Goal:** 450
- **1st Level:** You deal an additional 2 holy damage with damaging abilities that use the lance. Additionally, when the lance is used with a weapon ability that allows you to push a target, you can shift to a square adjacent to the target after the push.
- **5th Level:** The lance’s holy damage bonus increases to 4. Additionally, whenever you take the Charge action and use an ability with the Charge keyword, or use an ability that allows you to shift, your movement has the Fly keyword. If you don’t end this movement on the ground, you fall.
- **9th Level:** The lance’s holy damage bonus increases to 6. When the lance is used with a weapon ability that allows you to push or slide a target, the forced movement can be vertical.

#### MOLTEN CONSTRICTOR

Once belonging to a notorious and terrifying gladiator, this flexible black-iron net burns with the heat of a volcano.

- **Keywords:** Magic, Net
- **Item Prerequisites:** Four iron bars coated in magma slag
- **Project Source:** Texts or lore in Caelian
- **Project Roll Characteristic:** Might, Reason, or Intuition
- **Project Goal:** 450
- **1st Level:** Whenever you use this net with a weapon ability, the ability deals an extra 1 fire damage. Additionally, whenever you make an attack using this weapon and obtain a tier 3 result, the target is automatically grabbed after the attack’s effects resolve. A target grabbed in this way takes a bane when using the Escape Grab maneuver.
- **5th Level:** The net’s extra fire damage increases to 3. A target grabbed by an attack using the net takes (SURGE)(SURGE) magic fire damage each time they attempt to escape using the Escape Grab maneuver.
- **9th Level:** The net’s extra fire damage increases to 5, and the damage taken by a grabbed creature attempting to escape increases to (SURGE)(SURGE)(SURGE). Additionally, you can use a maneuver to make a free strike with another weapon against a target grabbed by the net.

#### ONEROUS BOW

This mechanized bow automatically applies debilitating poisons to arrows as they are fired.

- **Keywords:** Bow, Magic
- **Item Prerequisites:** One giant-spider venom sac, one valok gyroscope
- **Project Source:** Texts or lore in Caelian and Variac
- **Project Roll Characteristic:** Might, Reason, or Intuition
- **Project Goal:** 450
- **1st Level:** Whenever you use this bow with a weapon ability, the ability deals an extra 2 poison damage. Additionally, a signature attack made using the bow that obtains a tier 3 result on the power roll also leaves the target weakened (EoT).
- **5th Level:** The bow’s extra poison damage increases to 4. A signature attack made using the bow that obtains a tier 3 result on the power roll also makes the target weakened and slowed (EoT).
- **9th Level:** The bow’s extra poison damage increases to 6. Additionally, if you use an ability that targets a creature using the bow and you don’t have a bane or double bane on the ability, you can take a bane. Doing so lets you nock an additional arrow and target another creature within 1 square of the original target. Alternatively, you can take a double bane to target two creatures within 1 square of the original target.

#### STEELTONGUE

This sinuous whip reflects all light off its plated steel surfaces.

- **Keywords:** Magic, Whip
- **Item Prerequisites:** One hundred steel arrowheads stained with blood
- **Project Source:** Texts or lore in Caelian and Kalliak
- **Project Roll Characteristic:** Might, Reason, or Intuition
- **Project Goal:** 450
- **1st Level:** Your reach with weapon abilities increases by 1 while using this whip. Additionally, any damage-dealing weapon ability made using Steeltongue also makes the target [average] bleeding (save ends).
- **5th Level:** The whip’s additional reach increases to 2. Additionally, any damage-dealing weapon ability made using Steeltongue that targets a bleeding creature deals an extra 3 damage.
- **9th Level:** The whip’s additional reach increases to 3. If you use a signature ability using the whip that targets a bleeding creature, you can use the same ability again immediately as a maneuver.

#### THIRD EYE SEEKER

The patterns on this bow’s crystalline grip shift like dozens of blinking eyes.

- **Keywords:** Bow, Psionic
- **Item Prerequisites:** Heart strings of a tapir, a pound of tiger’s eye gemstones
- **Project Source:** Texts or lore in Variac
- **Project Roll Characteristic:** Reason or Intuition
- **Project Goal:** 450
- **1st Level:** You deal an additional 2 psychic damage with damaging abilities that use the bow. Weapon abilities that deal damage and use the bow inflict dazed (EoT) on tier 3 results, unless they already inflict the dazed condition.
- **5th Level:** The bow’s psychic damage bonus increases to 4. Whenever a creature within distance of your Ranged Weapon Free Strike squares uses a triggered action, you can use a triggered action afterward to make a ranged weapon free strike with the bow against the creature.
- **9th Level:** The bow’s psychic damage bonus increases to 6. You have a double edge on weapon abilities that use the bow against creatures who have used a Psionic ability since the end of your last turn.

#### THUNDERHEAD BIDENT

This bident is made from two pieces of moon metal twisted together, and hums like a tuning fork.

- **Keywords:** Magic, Medium Weapon
- **Item Prerequisites:** A jar of captured thunder, two ingots of moon metal
- **Project Source:** Texts or lore in Zaliac
- **Project Roll Characteristic:** Might, Reason, or Intuition
- **Project Goal:** 450
- **1st Level:** Whenever you use this bident with a weapon ability, the ability deals an extra 2 sonic damage. Additionally, when the bident is used with a weapon ability that pushes a target, the distance of the push is increased by 1. If the ability deals damage to a target but doesn’t impose forced movement, you can push the target 1 square.
- **5th Level:** The bident’s extra sonic damage increases to 4, and its additional push increases to 2 squares. Additionally, the bident can be used with ranged weapon abilities, and gains power the farther it is hurled. For each 2 squares the bident travels to the target of a ranged attack, the attack deals an extra 1 sonic damage.
- **9th Level:** The bident’s extra sonic damage increases to 6, and it deals an extra 1 sonic damage for each square it travels as part of a ranged attack. Additionally, whenever you make a weapon attack using this weapon, each creature adjacent to the target takes 6 sonic damage.

#### WETWORK

Favored by assassins and mercenaries who value efficiency, this naginata whispers the names of its past victims in its wielder’s mind.

- **Keywords:** Polearm, Psionic
- **Item Prerequisites:** A folded metal blade infused with blood
- **Project Source:** Texts or lore in Higaran
- **Project Roll Characteristic:** Might, Reason, or Intuition
- **Project Goal:** 450
- **1st Level:** Whenever you use this naginata with a weapon ability, the ability deals an extra 2 psychic damage. Additionally, if you kill a creature using Wetwork, you can immediately use a maneuver to make a melee free strike.
- **5th Level:** The naginata’s extra sonic damage increases to 4. Additionally, if you kill a creature using Wetwork, you can use a maneuver to make a melee free strike and move 2 squares before or after the attack.
- **9th Level:** The naginata’s extra sonic damage increases to 6. Additionally, if you kill a creature using Wetwork, you can use a maneuver to move your speed and make either a signature attack or a melee free strike.

### OTHER LEVELED TREASURES

This section presents other types of leveled treasures in alphabetical order.

#### BLOODBOUND BAND

The blood we shed is the blood we share.

- **Keywords:** Magic, Ring
- **Item Prerequisites:** A pair of obituaries that mention each other
- **Project Source:** Texts or lore in Caelian
- **Project Roll Characteristics:** Might, Reason, or Intuition
- **Project Goal:** 450
- **1st Level:** You gain a +6 bonus to Stamina while you wear this ring. During a respite, touch this ring to any number of other Bloodbound Bands worn by willing creatures to form a bond among all of you. Creatures related by blood cannot form bonds in this way. Bonded creatures may use the highest recovery value among them in place of their own and can spend each other’s Recoveries as if they were their own. When a creature bonded with you takes damage, you take 1 damage, which can’t be reduced in any way. Your bond ends if you remove the ring, form another bond, or die, but other rings continue to be bonded to each other.
- **5th Level:** The ring’s bonus to Stamina increases to +12, and you gain (SHIELD) while you wear the ring.
- **9th Level:** The ring’s bonus to Stamina increases to +21. If a creature bonded with you dies, you can die in their place. Your sacrifice twists fate to remove the creature from danger, and they regain Stamina equal to their winded value. Your ring then teleports into their possession and ceases to be magical.

#### BLOODY HANDWRAPS

The handwraps are stained with blood.

- **Keywords:** Hands, Psionic
- **Item Prerequisites:** One cotton bolt soaked in the blood of 6 adventurers.
- **Project Source:** Texts or lore in Caelian
- **Project Roll Characteristic:** Might, Agility, or Intuition
- **Project Goal:** 450
- **1st Level:** You deal +2 damage on weapon abilities while your weapon is unarmed strikes. Once per turn, you can take 5 damage, which can’t be reduced in any way, to perform the Grab maneuver as a free action.
- **5th Level:** The damage bonus granted by the handwraps increases to +4. Once per turn, you can take 10 damage, which can’t be reduced in any way, to make a melee free strike as a free action.
- **9th Level:** The damage bonus granted by the handwraps increases to +6. Once per turn, you can take 15 damage, which can’t be reduced in any way, to use a signature ability as a free action.

#### LIGHTNING TREADS

Sparks fly when the wearer of these boots gathers speed.

- **Keywords:** Feet, Magic
- **Item Prerequisites:** One jar of lightning.
- **Project Source:** Texts or lore in Yllyric
- **Project Roll Characteristic:** Agility, Reason, or Intuition
- **Project Goal:** 450
- **1st Level:** You deal +1 lightning damage on weapon abilities while your weapon is unarmed strikes. This bonus increases by 1 for each square you already moved this turn, up to a maximum total bonus of +3. Additionally, your speed is increased by 2.
- **5th Level:** The base damage bonus for the treads increases to +2, and the damage bonus you gain by moving increases to +2 lightning damage for each square, up to a maximum of +6. As a maneuver, you can perform a flying lightning kick on an adjacent creature. The creature is pushed up to 5 squares, moving you to a square adjacent to where that target lands.
- **9th Level:** The base damage bonus for the treads increases to +3, and the damage bonus you gain by moving increases to +3 lightning damage for each square, up to a maximum of +9. After performing a flying lightning kick, your next attack arcs lightning to three enemies within 5 squares of your target, dealing lightning damage to them.

#### REVENGER’S WRAP

This tattered cloak fills the mind of its wearer with thoughts of revenge.

- **Keywords:** Neck, Magic
- **Item Prerequisites:** A cloak worn by a murdered monarch
- **Project Source:** Texts or lore in Caelian
- **Project Roll Characteristic:** Might, Reason, or Intuition
- **Project Goal:** 450
- **1st Level:** Whenever a creature damages you while you wear this cloak, they are marked for revenge until the end of your next turn or until another creature damages you. Attacks you make against a creature marked for revenge gain an edge, and whenever you damage a creature marked for revenge, they are also bleeding (EoT).
- **5th Level:** Each creature who attacks you is marked for revenge until the end of your next turn. Whenever you damage a creature marked for revenge, they are also bleeding (save ends).
- **9th Level:** When you have three or more creatures marked for revenge and you target one of them with an ability that targets only one creature, you target all the creatures marked for revenge regardless of their distance and line of effect from you.

#### THIEF OF JOY

This burnished copper torc thrums with judgment.

- **Keywords:** Neck, Psionic
- **Item Prerequisites:** A pound of feathers and a pound of bricks from the Seven Cities of Hell
- **Project Source:** Texts or lore in Anjal
- **Project Roll Characteristic:** Might, Reason, or Presence
- **Project Goal:** 450
- **1st Level:** While you wear this torc, you gain a bonus to Stamina equal to twice your highest characteristic score. As a maneuver, target a creature you can see and learn their level. If their level is higher than yours, gain Envy; otherwise, gain Disdain. You can have both Envy and Disdain, but not more than one instance of either. When a creature within 10 squares of you deals damage to a creature, expend Envy or Disdain as a triggered action. If you expend Envy, deal the same amount of damage to a creature who is adjacent to you. If you expend Disdain, reduce the triggering damage by half. At the end of the encounter, you lose any Envy or Disdain you have.
- **5th Level:** The torc’s bonus to Stamina increases to three times your highest characteristic score. When you use the torc’s maneuver and the target creature is the same level as you, you gain your choice of Envy or Disdain.
- **9th Level:** The torc’s bonus to Stamina increases to five times your highest characteristic score. You can have multiple instances of Envy and Disdain, with no limit on either.

## ARTIFACTS

Artifacts are powerful treasures that entire campaigns can be built around finding, using, hiding, protecting, or destroying. Make no mistake—these items unbalance the game. If the heroes or a villain have access to such an item, their power is far beyond what the encounter building guidelines expect. That’s part of the fun!  

Typically, one person never holds onto an artifact for too long. Most of these treasures have a sentience of their own and an eagerness to move on. Since many powerful people want to get their hands on these artifacts, armies, dragons, and even gods sometimes come to collect the item from whoever refuses to let go.  

### BLADE OF A THOUSAND HEROES

A fabled blade, this sword features a hilt made of glittering starlight, out of which its gleaming metal blade extends. 

- **Keywords:** Magic, Medium Weapon  

Whether drawn from a stone, gifted by a lake spirit, forged by a god, or used to kill one, there is a sword that exists outside of time and space. It is always where it needs to be precisely when it needs to be there—then is gone in a flash when the need for it has waned. The sword is depicted in art, song, and story across many living cultures—and even more frequently among those long buried, often after proving the deciding factor in a battle. It’s been wielded by numerous heroes of legend, and even more who have slipped into the forgotten shadows of history. Though its size and make are often debated, the sword is consistently described as a hilt with no crossguard, made from pure starlight. When wielded, a brilliant metal blade springs forth from that hilt, suiting the holder’s taste in blades.  

Those who touch the blade are filled with the vigor and power of the thousand heroes who have held it before.  

- **Suited for Victory:** This sword takes on the size, shape, and make that the wielder wills into it. It can be a light, medium, or heavy weapon, and you can change its weapon type and appearance as a free maneuver. Any ability that uses the Blade of a Thousand Heroes gains a +8 damage bonus, and that ability always deals holy damage. Any creature vulnerable to holy damage who takes damage from this weapon is also weakened (EoT) and frightened (EoT).  
- **Rally the Righteous:** This blade fills all around it with hope and courage. Each allied creature within 1 mile of the weapon gains (SURGE) with weapon abilities and magic abilities, and has (SHIELD). In addition, each such creature’s Stamina maximum increases by 15 and they gain 15 Stamina when this ability first affects them.  
- **Turn the Tide:** Each enemy minion within 1 mile of the sword is dazed. Additionally, any enemy solo or leader in that area takes a bane on attacks.  
- **Victory’s Assurance:** This blade always appears on the eve before what will later come to be known as a historic battle. It disappears after 24 hours or when the battle is won, whichever comes first. By taking this blade, the wielder unwittingly enters into a pact with the weapon. If they don’t secure victory against monumental odds or some great foe by the time the sword disappears, they are pulled into the sword, preventing any chance of resurrection, and forever dooming them to lend their strength to the heroes of other ages.  
- **Soul of the Martyr:** If the wielder dies while holding this blade, their soul is drawn into the starlight hilt, where it remains for the rest of time to prevent any chance of resurrection. The sword disappears, but the lingering feeling of hope that spreads from it remains. For the next hour, the effects of Rally the Righteous change to (SURGE)(SURGE) for all allies’ weapon and magic abilities and each ally gains (SHIELD)(SHIELD) and an increase in Stamina maximum and Stamina of 30.  

### ENCEPTER

A bejeweled scepter with a spiraling porcelain handle balances an orb of light above its crown. 

- **Keywords:** Magic  

The scepter waits high in the sky, resting within an endlessly raging cyclone. It waits for the one who will unify all people under its light. It awaits its champion.  

The Encepter was said to have first manifested in a young world doomed to apocalypse—unless every last inhabitant of that world could stand together. The scepter is said to impose either dominion or obliteration over any threat its light is drawn around. Today, it is most commonly known as a bad omen, and should the Encepter reveal itself, folk know that the world teeters on the brink of destruction.  

Whether any of the stories are true, few can say, for the only living eyes that have witnessed the Encepter belong to dragons deep in slumber.  

- **Shining Presence:** The one who wields the Encepter is always cast in a brilliant glow. Any power roll made by the wielder that uses Presence automatically achieves a tier 3 result, though they can still roll in an attempt to score a critical hit.  
- **Champion’s Lasso:** As a free maneuver, the wielder of the scepter can trigger a glowing line of light that traces their path as they move, or can dismiss the glowing line. If the wielder crosses over this line, each creature and object of the wielder’s choice enclosed inside the line and within 2 squares above and below it are considered lassoed by the Encepter. Creatures remain lassoed until the lasso is released or until a new line is drawn.  
- **Dominion:** Each target lassoed by the Encepter is restrained and can’t teleport. A target caught in midair while lassoed stays in place rather than falling.  
- **Obliteration:** As an action, the wielder raises the Encepter to the sky. Each target lassoed by the Encepter erupts into a prismatic burst of light, taking 10 psychic damage for each square horizontally encircled by the lasso. The lasso is then immediately released.  
- **At World’s End:** If the Encepter was not taken from its cyclonic resting place with the purpose of vanquishing a terrible peril, then a terrible peril emerges to threaten the world within three days of the scepter being taken.  

### MORTAL COIL

This floating helix of golden metal spins like a dynamo as it activates, crackling with crimson sparks. 

- **Keywords:** Psionic  

Change is the engine of existence. Permanence begets stagnation. When the past refuses to relinquish control, a path must be cleared for the future. Energized by the flickering of minds and souls passing through the void, the Mortal Coil taps into the entropic potential inherent in every living creature to cast a shadow capable of felling even gods. For the true gift of life is death, and gifts are meant to be given.  

Only one destined for death can contain the power of the Mortal Coil. A mortal creature that carries this artifact serves as its host and is subject to the following effect.  

- **A Most Gracious Host:** The host gains an additional action on each of their turns, but they also age at ten times the normal rate and cannot ever regain Stamina. Hosts with no natural maximum lifespan permanently reduce their maximum Stamina by 10 each year.  

When Mortal Coil is left unattended or in the possession of a creature who is not mortal, it activates and cannot be deactivated until a mortal creature becomes its host once more. While active, it extends a penumbra of influence 10 miles in every direction. Every creature in the penumbra is subject to the following effects.  

- **One Foot in the Grave:** Each creature in the penumbra has damage weakness 2 and cannot ever regain Stamina.  
- **Get Busy Dyin’:** Each creature in the penumbra ages at ten times the normal rate. Diseases and poisons in the penumbra progress at ten times their normal rate. A creature with no natural maximum lifespan permanently reduces their maximum Stamina by 10 each year. Each creature gains an additional respite activity to use during each respite.  
- **If You Meet God on the Road, Kill Them:** Every entity is granted the gift of mortality. Previously immortal or invulnerable entities—from planar creatures to even the gods themselves—can now be killed while in the penumbra, though not necessarily easily. Anything that dies in Mortal Coil’s penumbra experiences Perfect Death. It is permanently, irrevocably dead. No magic, psionics, or technology may restore that life.  
- **Perpetual Motion:** If there are no creatures within Mortal Coil’s penumbra, the radius of the penumbra doubles.  
- **Beneath Contempt:** Deities and their servants always overlook Mortal Coil and its host. They are either unable to notice it or do not consider it a threat. If the artifact is somehow destroyed or unmade through godly power, it consumes a year of life from every humanoid on the world where it was destroyed and reforms in a hidden place.  

# TITLES

Titles are special benefits earned by heroes through adventure and mighty deeds. As part of choosing a career, a player selects a title to represent their heroes’ earliest accomplishments. Once heroes’ adventuring careers begin, they must win further titles—sometimes individually, sometimes as a group—by accomplishing heroic tasks.  

Titles are the record of a hero's accomplishments, forming the basis of the stories told of them in taverns or whispered in the halls of the mighty. Each title comes with a new ability or other special benefit. By earning titles, heroes gain a unique set of capabilities that sets them apart from other adventurers.  

## TITLE REQUIREMENTS

Players don’t choose their titles. Like treasure and renown, titles must be won. Each title has a unique requirement—you might need to defeat a specific monster, research dangerous forbidden lore, or, in the case of the Monarch title, win a kingdom!  

Titles aren’t given out on a schedule. Instead, the Director grants one whenever heroes perform a deed worthy of it. Just as a hero doesn’t automatically find a magic weapon just because they meet the requirements for using it, they don’t automatically earn a title unless it’s granted by the Director.  

Although the Director gives out titles, players can work with the Director towards a specific goal. For instance, a player might say, "I’m interested in the Dragon Blooded title. Can my hero listen for rumors of any wicked dragons nearby that need smiting?" Having ambition is good! Pursue the titles you want that will make you a better hero!  

## TITLE ECHELONS

Each title is assigned to an echelon of play where it is most likely to be earned. For instance, knighthood is something that can typically be earned by the 2nd echelon, while becoming a king or queen can usually only be achieved in the 4th. But don’t let the rules get in the way of a good story! If the Director decides that the players somehow earn knighthood at level 1, bask in the glory of this great accomplishment.  

If you’re the Director, note that granting a title several tiers early may have unwanted effects on the game. Higher-echelon titles tend to have more significant benefits than lower-tier ones. If a hero becomes queen at level 1, her royal responsibilities may overshadow her other adventures. Don’t grant a title more than one echelon early unless you know what you’re getting into!  

## CUSTOMIZING TITLES

In the following pages, you'll find lots of premade titles. But the Director can also create custom titles, both to reward specific player accomplishments and to flesh out organizations, locations, and foes within their own game world. When a hero finally achieves a long-term goal after many game sessions of struggle, the Director can memorialize the moment by granting a unique title.  

Similarly, the Director can grant custom titles when the heroes befriend specific factions, defeat notorious villains, or learn new moves from skilled NPCs. While the Director can always create titles from scratch, the easiest way to create custom titles is to modify an existing title's requirements to fit the adventure at hand. For instance, maybe your world contains a secretive organization of freedom fighters, the Jesters, who never carry weapons, defeating foes with unarmed attacks and improvised weapons. You could modify the requirements of the Brawler title, changing its requirements to "Join the Jesters."  

## TITLE BENEFITS

Some titles have only one benefit. These are typically earned individually by heroes instead of together as a group. For instance, to win the Advanced Pupil title, a hero must study at the feet of a renowned member of their character class. Only the hero doing the studying reaps the reward!  

Most titles, however, are earned by all the heroes at once for accomplishing a great task, benefiting them all. These titles typically offer a menu of three or four different options. When the party earns the title, each player decides which benefit their hero takes. For instance, if the party triumphs in a tavern fight and gains the Brawler title, one hero might become more adept at fighting with improvised weapons, another might learn a special dodge to use when flanked by multiple enemies, and two others might simply revel in increased notoriety. Any hero can take any of a title’s benefits they qualify for, and multiple characters can take the same benefit.  

## GRANTING TITLES

Titles are rewards for heroic actions, and they often go hand in hand with treasure and other goodies. If the party defeats a fearsome monster and gains renown, or accomplishes a quest and wins a magical leveled item, they might earn a title at the same time.  

There's no hard and fast rule for the number of titles a party should accumulate by a certain level. If the party wins a title whenever they accomplish a truly notable deed—once every few adventures—then they might earn about one title per level. Sticking to this rate isn't a requirement. A party might easily earn twice or half as many titles—they'll just be a bit more or less powerful than they otherwise would be. A Director can even skip granting titles altogether if they wish.  

While running a game session, it can be hard to track the heroes’ actions and remember which titles they might qualify for! It’s easier to plan titles ahead of time. If the heroes might face a demon or dragon in an upcoming adventure, the Director can include the Demon Blooded or Dragon Blooded titles as potential rewards alongside that magic cloak or enchanted dagger. A Director can even use the titles system to inspire adventures. What challenges should a hero face to earn the Demigod title?

### OPTIONAL RULE: PLAYERS CHOOSE TITLES

If the Director doesn’t want to track player accomplishments, they can let the players do it instead. In this case, whenever a hero enters a new echelon of play, they gain one title of their choice for which they qualify.  

## 1ST ECHELON TITLES

The 1st echelon titles are presented in alphabetical order.  

### ANCIENT LOREMASTER

“It’s astonishing what you find in old books. Look at this, nearly complete schematics for a war automaton, gathering dust because nobody here reads Zaliac.”  
**Prerequisites:** You find a trove of forgotten books.  
Choose one of the following benefits:  

- **Leverage:** You learn a priceless secret. The Director chooses the type of person who would value this secret, usually a member of a particular faction, such as a Higaran noble, or a type of person, such as a fence of stolen goods. When negotiating with this type of person, you can offer this secret. If they accept, you instantly raise their interest by 3. You can only share this secret once.  
- **Rare Books:** You add rare, ancient books to your collection. When you make a project roll for a research project, you roll an additional 1d6 for each dead language you know.  
- **Susurrus Codex:** You find a sinister book that whispers advice in a voice no one else can hear. As long as you follow all the book’s advice, you gain an edge on Reason tests and a bane on Presence tests. You can stop following the book’s advice at any time, but the book won’t speak to you for the rest of the day.  

### BATTLEAXE DIPLOMAT

“Karami Ironfist is the mightiest warrior alive—this I know, for only she has defeated me in battle. I stand with her.”  
**Prerequisites:** You gain the friendship or alliance of a creature you once battled.  
Choose one of the following benefits:  

- **Iron Hand in Velvet Glove:** The first time during a negotiation when you make a test that uses the Intimidate skill and don’t make an argument that appeals to the NPC’s pitfall, you don’t lower the NPC’s patience or interest no matter the outcome of the roll.  
- **Truce!:** You have a double edge on tests made to stop combat and start negotiation.  
- **Warriors’ Understanding:** You have an edge on Presence tests made to influence creatures who you fought against in combat encounters.  

### BRAWLER

“Relax, friend, we don’t want any trouble. …Oops, I guess we’re getting trouble!”  
**Prerequisites:** You triumph in battle without killing any of your foes.  
Choose one of the following benefits:  

- **Duck!:** When an enemy attacks you while a second creature is flanking you, you can use a triggered action to redirect the attack against the second creature. You can’t use this benefit again until you gain a Victory.  
- **Furniture Fighter:** When you use a weapon ability with an improvised weapon or a weapon that is not part of your kit, the ability still benefits from your kit’s melee weapon damage bonus.  
- **Headbutter:** Your free strikes don’t take a bane while you are grappled or restrained.  
- **If I Wanted You Dead, You’d Be Dead:** Now and in future fights, when you defeat foes without any killing, you gain an edge on tests during negotiations with them.  

### CITY RAT

“Once you’ve spent a night on the streets of Capital, nothing surprises you anymore.”  
**Prerequisites:** You have spent at least 5 respites in a metropolis.  
Choose one of the following benefits:  

- **Discerning Shopper:** When looking for an item prerequisite for a crafting project, you can remember meeting someone who might have the item—or at least information about it.  
- **One with the Crowd:** You gain an edge on tests made to hide and sneak, provided you are using one or more creatures as cover.  
- **Street Smart:** While in a settlement, you never suffer penalties from being surprised.  

### DOOMED

“That day. Under the sun, when Sulur the Hakaan fell beneath the raiders’ swords, I saw something. I think I was seeing this moment. …SULUR! I’M ON MY WAY!”  
**Prerequisites:** You are not a Hakaan but have witnessed the death of a Hakaan.  

You’re not destined for a meaningful death, but you still might achieve one. When you’re reduced to 0 Stamina but still conscious, you can choose to become doomed. If you do, you can’t regain hit points, you automatically get tier 3 results on tests and resistance rolls, and you don’t die until your Stamina equals the negative of your maximum Stamina value. At the end of the encounter, you die.  

### DWARVEN LEGIONNAIRE

“I am a mountain, my feet are its roots! My friends are my range and my foes get the boot!”  
**Prerequisites:** You fight alongside at least three dwarves.  
Choose one of the following benefits:  

- **Close Formation:** Your stability increases by 2 while adjacent to at least two allies.  
- **Rune of Alarm:** You can spend 10 minutes to inscribe a magical eye-shaped rune on a surface. The rune sheds light for 2 squares. It is dispelled if it is activated or if you inscribe the rune elsewhere. The rune is activated when an enemy comes within 2 squares of the rune.  

When the rune is activated, you wake up if you are nonmagically asleep, and for 1 minute you can see through the rune as if you were in its square.  
- **Stonemeld:** While adjacent to a stone wall, you can use a maneuver to gain concealment. The concealment lasts until you leave the square or use an ability.  

### ELEMENTAL DABBLER

“Spirit of fire, I command you!”  
**Prerequisites:** You defeat a monster with the Elemental keyword, such as a crux of fire.  
Choose a damage type to which the defeated monster had an immunity (such as fire). Then choose one of the following benefits:  

- **Elemental Blaster:** You gain the Elementalist 1st-level Hurl Element feature, dealing the chosen damage type.  
- **Elemental Immunity:** You gain immunity to the chosen damage type equal to your highest characteristic score.  
- **Elemental Weapons:** When you use an ability that deals damage with no type, you can change that damage to damage of the chosen damage type.  

### FACTION MEMBER

“Salute when you’re addressing a Commander of the Blue!”  
**Prerequisites:** You join an army, guild, or similar organization.  

You gain membership in a faction. You’re regarded as a promising but untested agent, and you’re allowed to operate independently. You can be assigned tasks to further your faction’s goals, and you can expect rewards and promotion if you succeed.  

When you’re negotiating with a member of your faction, their starting Patience increases by 2, up to a maximum of 5. Additionally, the Director assigns you one of the following benefits, as appropriate to the faction in question. The Director can also create a custom benefit for a faction not listed here. You can only use this benefit in a settlement where your faction can be found, and once you have used this benefit, you can’t use it again until you have completed a task for your faction.  

- **Academic Faction:** You can find a sage who can make up to three Reason tests to recall lore or project rolls for research projects on your behalf. The sage has a +5 bonus to these tests. Research project rolls take 10 minutes each and don’t need to be made during a respite.  
- **Guild Faction:** You can find an expert craftsperson who can make up to three project rolls for crafting projects on your behalf. The craftsperson has a +5 bonus to these tests. These project rolls take 10 minutes each and don’t need to be made during a respite.  
- **Martial Faction:** You can recruit up to three minions with levels no greater than your own, of a type appropriate for the faction (such as human guards). These minions follow your orders for 1 day.  
- **Spy Faction:** You can find an agent who can provide you with three pieces of information about a settlement you’re in, such as the location of a hidden person, a secret entrance into a guarded area, or the negotiation ideal or pitfall of an important person.  

You can gain this title multiple times, once for each faction. A faction can strip you of this title if you act against its interests.  

### LOCAL HERO

“Don’t you dare open your coin purse. The Heroes of Briarwood drink for free in this tavern!”  
**Prerequisite:** You save a community from certain destruction.  
Choose one of the following benefits:  

- **A New Dawn:** When you finish a respite while in a community you have saved, the party gains a hero token. This hero token disappears at the end of your next respite if it hasn’t been used.  
- **Easy Marks:** You have an edge on tests made with skills from the interpersonal and intrigue skill groups when influencing members of a community that you have saved.  
- **Local Fame:** Your Renown score increases by 1.  

### MAGE HUNTER

“Every time you use magic, you open a door, and something from outside our world reaches in. I’m here to shut that door.”  
**Prerequisites:** You defeat three leaders or solo monsters who could each use at least one ability with the Magic keyword.  
Choose one of the following benefits:  

- **Arcane Dampening:** Attacks with the Magic keyword take a bane if they target you, and you gain an edge on resistance rolls against abilities with the Magic keyword.  
- **Oh No You Don’t!:** When an adjacent creature uses an ability with the Magic keyword, you can make a free strike against them as a triggered action.  
- **Stink of Magic:** As a maneuver, you can open your senses to the residue of magic. Until the end of your next turn, you are aware whether each creature within 5 squares of you is an undead, construct, or creature from another plane of existence, and whether they have used an ability with the Magic keyword in the past hour. Additionally, you never suffer the penalties of being surprised by undead, constructs, or creatures from another plane of existence.  

### MARSHAL

“Let me buy you a drink! I haven’t seen you since, you know, you turned me in. No hard feelings. What have I been up to since prison? You’ll laugh. They gave me a badge. No, seriously. Oh, that reminds me, you’re under arrest.”  
**Prerequisites:** You join an organization, such as the Far Mariners, that hunts criminals, or you are deputized to act for the local authorities.  
Choose one of the following benefits:  

- **I Guess It’s the Hard Way:** When a combat begins and you are not surprised, the first time you take damage before your turn, you have (SHIELD) against that damage.  
- **Heedless Pursuer:** Once on your turn, you can spend 1d6 Stamina as a free maneuver. If you do so, you ignore difficult terrain and the length of your jumps increases by 1 square until the end of your turn.  
- **Silver Shield:** You have a badge granted to you by your organization. While you are wearing it, you gain the Divine Interdiction feature from the Censor class. When you use this feature in this way, you can’t spend zeal unless you have the Zeal class feature.  
- **Trained Tracker:** You gain an edge on tests made to track criminals.  

### MONSTER BANE

“You dare mock Blunwin Mousebane? You think my deed trivial? That’s because you haven’t seen the size of the mouse!”  
**Prerequisites:** You defeat a leader or solo monster with a Reason score of –2 or lower, such as an ankheg.  
Choose one of the following benefits:  

- **Beast Bane:** When a creature with the Animal keyword uses an attack against you, it has a bane on the roll.  
- **Monster Whisperer:** You gain an edge on tests made to calm or tame non-sapient creatures.  
- **Monster Trophy:** You decorate your equipment with a trophy from a monster. While the trophy is visible, you gain an edge on tests made to intimidate sapient creatures.  

### OWED A FAVOR

“The Guild’s gratitude knows no bounds! We’ll repay you in any way we can … as long as it doesn’t cost too much money.”  
**Prerequisites:** You successfully perform a service for a powerful faction.  

The faction will perform one favor for the party, provided it doesn’t interfere with the faction’s goals.  

Additionally, the faction is a good source of information. The Director chooses a skill from the crafting or lore skill groups appropriate to the faction, such as the Criminal Underworld skill for an outlaw gang, the Blacksmith skill for a blacksmith’s guild, or the Society skill for a noble house. While in a settlement with the faction, you gain this skill if you don’t already have it. If you already have the skill, you gain an edge on tests made with the skill.  

### RATCATCHER

“I like fighting little guys because I don’t have to spend money on a helmet.”  
**Prerequisites:** You defeat a leader or solo monster that is 1S or smaller, such as a goblin monarch.  
Choose one of the following benefits:  

- **Death From Above:** You gain (SURGE) when making an attack against a creature whose size is smaller than yours.  
- **Everybody Move!:** When you use the Knockback maneuver, you can use it on one additional creature of your size or two additional smaller creatures.  
- **Come Out to Play:** You gain the Come Out to Play ability, which can be paid for using the heroic resource of your class:  

**COSTS 1 HEROIC RESOURCE: COME OUT TO PLAY**

- **Keywords:** Area, Magic  
- **Type:** Maneuver  
- **Type:** 5 burst  
- **Target:** All enemies hidden from you  
  

**Effect:** Each target is P [average] taunted (EoT). You know the locations of creatures taunted in this way.  

### SHIP CAPTAIN

“Up anchor, shipmates, ‘tis to glory we steer!”  
**Prerequisites:** You acquire a ship, airship, or similar vessel.  
Choose one of the following benefits:  

- **Deep Sea Diver:** Your movement gains the Swim keyword.  
- **Ship Speaker:** You magically know any of your ships’ locations even while not aboard. You can telepathically speak to anyone on board the ship who understands a language, and they can respond, no matter your distance from the ship.  
- **Signal Flags:** While aboard a ship, you can communicate with and conduct negotiations with another ship up to 5 miles away, as long as you can both see each other. You have an edge on Presence tests made while negotiating in this way.  
- **Trained Crewmember:** You gain an edge on tests made to handle sea or air vessels.  

### TROUPE TACTICS

“Break a leg! No wait, that’s supposed to be a figure of speech!”  
**Prerequisites:** The party has successfully performed as a troupe of actors, circus performers, or other entertainers.  
Choose one of the following benefits:  

- **Flying Circus:** At any time during a willing adjacent ally’s turn, you can use a triggered action to push them up to 2 squares if their size is the same as yours, or 4 squares if they are smaller. If this push causes the ...

- **Spotlight:** You magically cause a creature within 10 squares to shed light for 5 squares. The light lasts for 1 minute, until the creature is more than 10 squares away from you, or until you dismiss the effect (no action required). While illuminated, a creature can’t sneak or hide, has a bane on tests to perform an action secretly, and has an edge on tests made with the Lead, Music, and Perform skills.  
- **Supporting Player:** You gain an edge on group tests using Presence and on tests made to assist another creature with a Presence test.  
- **Work the Crowd:** While one of your allies is playing music or performing, you gain an edge on tests made to hide, sneak, conceal objects, or pick pockets.  

### WANTED DEAD OR ALIVE

“While you were dreaming about that big bounty on our heads, you forgot that Dead or Alive is a game we can play too. So before you try to put those manacles on my wrist, ask yourself this: a minute from now, do you want to be dead? Or do you want to be alive?”  
**Prerequisites:** You are declared an outlaw by a governmental authority.  
Choose one of the following benefits:  

- **Honor Among Thieves:** You are considered to have 2 higher Renown when negotiating with criminals.  
- **Minion Mower:** When you make a melee attack that targets a minion and at least one more minion is within distance of the attack, the attack gains (SURGE).  
- **No, You’re Under Arrest!:** You gain an edge on resistance rolls made to escape a grab. Additionally, when you make a successful test to escape manacles or bonds, as part of the same maneuver you can transfer the manacles or bonds to another person adjacent to you without them immediately noticing.  

### ZOMBIE SLAYER

“Why won’t you die! You’ve already done it once, you should be good at it by now!”  
**Prerequisites:** You defeat a leader or solo monster with the Undead keyword, such as a ghost.  
Choose one of the following benefits:  

- **Blessed Weapons:** When you use an ability that deals damage that has no type, you can deal holy damage instead.  
- **Divine Health:** You gain corruption immunity equal to your highest characteristic score. You can’t be turned into an undead creature.  
- **Holy Terror:** You gain the Holy Terror ability, which can be paid for using the heroic resource of your class:  

**COSTS 3 HEROIC RESOURCES: HOLY TERROR**

*Return to your grave!*  

- **Keywords:** Area, Magic  
- **Type:** Action  
- **Type:** 3 burst  
- **Target:** All enemies 


**Effect:** Each undead creature in the area takes (SURGE) holy damage and is P [strong] frightened (save ends).  

## PERKS AS TITLES

The Director can turn a perk into a 1st echelon title by simply giving it a prerequisite. For example, a hero might gain the Familiar perk as a title instead if they complete a quest for an archmage, who then teaches the ritual to conjure the familiar as a reward for the hero.  

# OTHER REWARDS

Sometimes there’s no better reward than the adoration of the public and some gold in your purse. While treasure, Victories, and XP make a hero mighty, there are other rewards, such as renown and wealth, that player characters can earn while adventuring.

## RENOWN

As you accomplish heroic deeds, your fame allows you to influence NPCs and attract followers. Your infamy among enemies also grows, and their hatred and fear of you can cause foes to lash out during negotiations (see Negotiation). Every hero has a Renown score that represents how they can use their reputation to influence others. The higher the score, the greater your impact with those who know of your legend.

At the start of character creation, your Renown is 0. Some careers can increase your initial Renown score (see Careers).

### INCREASING RENOWN

Your starting Renown score is 0 unless modified by your choice of career or other rule. Renown typically increases at the end of an adventure, often after the acknowledgment of a powerful NPC that you helped save them, their family, their home, or their organization. That NPC and anyone else who witnessed your heroics can tell the tale, and from there, your legend grows.

#### FOR THE DIRECTOR: AWARDING RENOWN

In general, a hero gains 1 Renown each time they complete an adventure. If you want the characters to be less famous than in a standard heroic tale, you can adjust this to give out Renown only after every other adventure, or only when the heroes level up. Alternatively, you can award more Renown after each adventure if you want the heroes to become power players in the world more quickly.

### INFLUENCE NEGOTIATION

Renown changes the way NPCs respond to heroes during negotiations. For more information, see Negotiation.

### ATTRACT FOLLOWERS

You can also use your Renown score to attract and employ followers who perform different duties or favors for you. The Renown Followers table shows how many followers a hero can have at one time based on Renown. You can always let go of a follower in your employ to hire a new one. 

You can recruit as many new followers as your Renown allows as a respite activity, provided you are in a place or have a means of communication that allows you to recruit such followers.

#### RENOWN AND FOLLOWERS

| Renown | Number of Followers |
|--------|---------------------|
| 3      | 1                   |
| 6      | 2                   |
| 9      | 3                   |
| 12     | 4                   |

#### STRONGHOLD

Many followers stay at a stronghold, which is a home base you designate and can change. Your stronghold is typically a location shared by your fellow heroes. It could be a few rooms at an inn in a sleepy village, an old castle you claimed after clearing it of monsters, or a fleet of sailing ships.

### FOLLOWER TYPES

When you attract a new follower, you decide on their name and ancestry, and choose what role they play in their service to you.

#### ARTISAN

Artisans are crafting experts who can contribute to your research and crafting projects (see Research and Crafting). An artisan can contribute one project roll per day to a project you choose while they remain at your stronghold, provided they have access to the necessary materials.

When you recruit an artisan, choose four skills from the crafting skill group that they know. An artisan has a Might or Agility score of 1 (your choice), a Reason score of 1, and a 0 in all other characteristics. They know Caelian and two other languages of your choice.

#### RETAINERS

Retainers are heroic NPCs who adventure alongside the player characters. They are controlled by players in combat and are much simpler to run and less powerful than the player characters. A hero can only have one retainer in their service at a time unless the Director deems otherwise.

Rules for retainers are found in the *Draw Steel: Monsters* core rulebook.

#### SAGE

Sages are research experts who can contribute to your research and crafting projects. A sage can contribute one project roll per day to a project you choose while they remain at your stronghold, provided they have access to the necessary materials.

When you recruit a sage, choose four skills from the lore skill group that they know. A sage has a Reason and Intuition score of 1, and a 0 in all other characteristics. They know Caelian and two other languages of your choice.

### SPECIFIC USES FOR RENOWN

The Director can use Renown as a tool that determines how much access heroes have to exclusive places in the campaign’s world, or how much power they wield in organizations of which they are members. The rules for using Renown in such ways are in the For the Director section. (*Playtest note: This section is yet to come.*)

## WEALTH

This game isn’t about accumulating and counting every piece of copper you acquire. Instead of tracking a bank account, the amount of stuff your hero can purchase is based on their wealth score. As you accomplish more deeds, you acquire more treasure and rewards from grateful NPCs that allow you to be an even more effective hero.

The Hero Wealth table shows the types of items, gear, services, property, and more that you can purchase in the game. The table shows both the purchases that heroes can acquire individually and that a party can acquire when the characters pool their resources together as a group.

In order for a hero to make a purchase, the item must be available to them. The Director can also decide that a hero can only afford one or a limited number of purchases. For example, a hero with a Wealth score of 3 can buy a small house, but that doesn’t mean they can buy up every available small house to become a landlord.

This isn’t an exhaustive list, but you and the Director can use the table to judge what your character can and can’t purchase. For instance, the price of an ox isn’t on this list, but you can reasonably assume that if you can buy a horse, you can probably afford an ox as well. (Don’t @ us, farm nerds.) And if you can’t afford something you want, fear not! You might still be able to acquire a specific good or service through negotiation or by trading your heroic services instead of spending cash. Treasures such as magic swords, psionic crowns, and even healing potions are rare and typically can’t be purchased. Instead, they’re found on adventures, traded for other treasures, given as rewards by NPCs, or crafted by the heroes.

### HERO WEALTH

| Score | Individual | Group                       |
|-------|------------|-----------------------------|
| 1     | Mundane clothing, gear, armor, implements, and weapons; meals or drinks at a common tavern; stay at a common inn; passage on a boat | Horse and cart; dinner at a fine tavern; stay at a fine inn |
| 2     | Horse and cart; dinner at a fine tavern; stay at a fine inn | Catapult; small house          |
| 3     | Catapult; small house      | Library; tavern; manor home; sailing boat |
| 4     | Library; tavern; manor home; sailing boat | Church; keep; wizard tower     |
| 5     | Church; keep; wizard tower | Castle; shipyard                |
| 6     | Castle; shipyard           | Private island                  |

### GAINING WEALTH

Each hero starts with a Wealth score of 1 that can be improved by their choice of career during character creation. The hero’s Wealth score increases whenever they find and keep a massive amount of monetary treasure, such as a hoard of coins and gems from a dragon’s lair or several unique and valuable paintings from a monarch as a reward for a job well done.

In general, a hero’s Wealth score increases about once every other level of play. The Director can increase this rate if they wish.

### OPTIONAL RULE: LOSING WEALTH

As an optional rule, the Director can allow a hero to make a purchase that is one level above their wealth level. If this occurs, the hero’s Wealth score is reduced by 1 after making the purchase.
